 Yeah, we do, we have forward.  Yeah, we do, we have forward.  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  Okay.  Okay. We have some.  It's going to manage this.  It's going to manage the whole.  The other team budget.  Yeah, he is going to describe on the white.  Got a CJ is going to write all of a done.  I've done it.  And I thought of course I just open it up.  And if there's any conversation or questions about previous budget,  maybe they can answer a troubled up.  What's that?  And if we see to that and go into the chain.  Right.  I don't know.  You don't know.  That's not very professional.  You know,  I think she means.  We sent it.  We sent it.  We sent it.  We sent it.  We sent it.  Okay.  Confirm.  Confirm.  Confirm.  Confirm.  Confirm.  Confirm.  Confirm.  Confirm.  No.  No.  I forgot.  Confirm.  No.  I tried running.  One day.  And I made it to the corner house.  Uh, where.  I was about this.  They make it for.  Where they.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  If you see that out of me,  you might want to look behind me to make some notes.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I mean,  I said,  June 1st was the day I was,  so,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, um,  so, uh,  so take the back,  I had a question in the minds of the government.  You know, I got home last night.  I told my wife I was going to sit there.  You never believed the war with my energy got us.  You might have already told me.  It's going to help me.  That's what the conversation is, isn't it?  Very well.  It's about here.  You can see it.  Drink, drink, drink.  Drink!  Drink it!  Drink it!  All right, I'll follow the committee. The whole meeting back into such an excuse budget. I don't know if they recessed it or not, but anyway, all right. Well, then I'll call the war.  So I thought what we do. I think the plan is to come back and make any changes to the budget.  I was in his team. We're going to be service scrubs to come up with the proposed changes budget that's presented.  And then we're going to have to figure out how we're going to find the money to maintain the budget neutral position that the manager is taking the percentage.  But before we do that, I think it'd be appropriate to just ask if there's any questions you have asked about the budget that's presented.  It takes something bubbled up over the last week in your mind that you want clarification on.  And this will be a great time to get to that.  So questions regarding building a collection.  She was not, but you have any questions you could say to question now would you take notes on how to do that? The department has a watching.  So we could like to get you over slots back by the end of the day. If not soon.  Okay. You want to just ask those questions and give those notes.  Or feel free to email them directly.  Also budget has to stand. How much is form that is in the middle of the general fund?  About sure.  So.  Does any I've never budgeted so money is don't go back to me.  Is anybody going to.  I don't know.  Technically, you cannot budget to go towards the fund ballot.  You have to have a balanced budget. And if there are savings throughout the year, that savings goes back to the fund balance.  But technically, you cannot budget to go towards one balance.  So do you think they should have a fund balance?  It will depend on really where we stand at this point is where we end out.  When we go through that, our process, the offer is a little better.  So I'm going to be honest with regards to our fund balance.  And then that will be our starting point for the current year.  But as it stands now, we have a balanced budget.  And we hope that our savings.  So I just want us to build that.  So right now, I don't know whether we will have fund balance or not.  But that's the purpose of the.  So I think we could generally say that our goal is to spend less money than we can.  That is correct.  And I will say the auditors will be present at our upcoming council meeting.  I'm honored with you.  And they'll go over to financial funds that will have presented a lot of the conditions.  But that would be appropriate time to ask the radio.  Yeah, questions from where we were.  We're looked on.  Not what's going to move on into the other.  We left that meeting with several items.  And the board made some notes.  And so I'll just go over.  So items that will review the addition for the 27 budget.  Include revisit comprehensive plan funding.  That was made by the government.  Robertson in addition funding.  But for Robertson, locate $50,000 for rescue equipment and the fire department.  That was a lot of customer knowledge.  And see if the spot will find funding to support vehicles.  By far and eight thousand dollars each.  Those are the notes from where we left off in the last meeting.  And I think they were just going to throw those up on the board.  And less than that was to remove those.  The city manager had a request really as a release of the main goal building.  So make a copy of this.  Yes, yes.  So I don't need to read it.  I don't want to.  And I will see that.  That's the building.  So the impact to the budget 27 for the main goal building.  So it's.  $277,000.  That's all for this year.  Well, yeah.  Right.  No, the current fiscal year for 27 would be.  97,000.  That's right.  Mr. Andrew.  For the fiscal year.  We'll begin July 27.  So.  Correct.  So in the quarter of.  I would want.  You're looking at $86,000.  Plus.  And then 37.  So the total for.  Thank you.  You'll be looking at 500.  54,678.  For the.  27.  About until June 30 of.  Correct.  Or the main goal.  Okay.  And for the.  And then the residual after that.  We just will be clear for everybody.  Is 97 plus 277.  That's an additional 300 and call it, you know, $80,000.  Pitch.  Ground numbers.  Correct.  And we're absolutely.  If you're looking at.  181.  What happened?  The current fiscal year.  27.  That we're looking at.  In current fiscal year.  27 that were proposed.  Provided 27.  Correct.  Got it.  And then.  I don't know if we got any email across for expense reductions.  We only had one from council member Harris.  And he wanted to try to find funding for the Christmas parade.  His recommendation was to remove that from a council's travel.  We do have some other mechanisms.  But that was directly done on council demands.  Okay.  All right.  Okay.  Yeah.  If we manage to do that.  Or we.  In a tight.  I'm on the.  Pull it all together.  We could.  We could do it.  Okay.  It was approved.  The initial budget.  It takes us.  Several months.  You know, get all the.  There.  If we managed to do that.  Or we.  In a tight.  Online.  Pull it all together.  We could.  We could do it.  Okay.  It was approved.  The initial budget.  It takes us several months.  We could.  Or we.  Or we could.  Or we could do it.  Or we could do it.  But.  The.  We could do that.  You know, get all the.  Different.  Participants.  But that would be normal process.  You could be that.  My recommendation would be to take it from another source because.  I think council's travel was already kind of.  But again, if we are to do it.  With the environment.  Councilman.  So I know.  Are you.  Are you done to prophecy?  I was out.  when we don't want, how much would that be?  Each camp on average is about $40,000 per site.  Right now, one of the sites is already  used not for the city, but I think some community members  and maybe some house out funding had one of the sites  that came to rockin' out of it.  I mean, but the other two sites,  we use Brooker T as well as South Rockin' Out.  And right now, they are open,  and we're just not actively running camp.  So kids can't go there and utilize the facility,  but we don't have staffing for the actual camp administration.  So every week, they do pay to go to those camps,  so great, for the summit camp that is for it.  Yeah.  But they don't, they don't cover the cost, I would say  we don't do cost recovery and a lot of our program  and everything.  I think that we can feed for rockin' outracing this right now.  It's $50,000, but we, whereas some of the other camps  across the city range up north of $150,000,  was that why I think the wide,  I don't know if this is going to get the right,  but I think they're around $200.00.  That's for interior, correct?  Yep, that's for feed.  So I don't know if there have been any other  in the community initiatives too,  but these gaps, I know for instance,  there's been a private group that have found the funding  for UCM and the best school and home shelter,  as well as Juneteenth is also being led to community support.  So those of you that continue on,  I don't know if you've heard of any others,  because that might be impactful conversation around.  Yeah, I've not heard of any other community groups  picking up any of the major events at the city,  as sponsor in the past, I am aware of the Juneteenth.  One that's scheduled, but nobody has reached out  to us for any of those other than the summer camp  that I like about a camp.  And I'm just going to discuss my option.  Yeah, and I want to thank you, you don't plan it,  but as far as we're not going to be funded,  the homeless shelter, UCM, but the mayor,  I appreciate you making some phone calls  and getting them funding, and they appreciate it a lot.  And so with that being said,  I'm looking at, if we have a lot of these programs,  nonprofits that does significant work in our community,  that's going to be putt, and I see this budget  that we produce on the library,  I think the only one that's funded by 500, okay.  So I'm a study in other cities,  and what they've been doing is they have someone on board,  a professional fund grazers, but like a grant rating.  And like what you did for the UCM, right?  You made a bulk, you made a row of decks,  you made a bulk call.  So if we could put a position on to find someone  that's a professional fund grazer  for these seats and a track wrecking of funding money,  I think even if we temporarily use some of that 500 and K,  then we could find money for the boys' club,  boys' and girls' club, but it's our river,  the volunteers center, the small business support  that with all these places that we're cutting,  I think that we may be able to fund a position  for our fundraiser on grant right now.  Because I had very good success when I wasn't on the council  and this council approved the grant rating.  Within three months,  she was able to fund $175,000 for its seat.  So I think I'm using that same model.  If you take some of this 500,  we may be able to fund a library,  everything that they can go out and fund money  from private things, being the grants,  when anything that's available.  Just for clarity, what 500,000 are you talking about?  You don't have any.  So I see the library, Brasswell Library,  in this budget,  are you saying that Brasswell Library  is not going to get 500,000?  No, no, no, no, no, no, no.  I'll never say that.  What I say is I want to clarity from you  on where the funding that you were talking about,  because right now we have 500,000 allocated for Brasswell Library,  which is actually a reduction from what we give it to them in the past.  So if you take that by reduction,  if you take that funding that's promised to the library,  that's going to reduce something even more.  So I was wondering where you were coming up with the difference.  So are you saying to reduce the library as much as that would be?  Yeah, this is what I'm saying.  So instead of 500,000 right now, right?  Because the library,  amongst all the nonprofits,  I think the only ones that's firmly going to get funded,  like you used to point the boards and girls club.  So in the budget,  we had, we call them outside aid school,  we had the airport that's funded.  We had, I think it's the gateway partnership  that's funded and as well as the library,  because those were governmental agencies  that we have staying in goodness with other jurisdictions.  Outside of that,  the outside agencies are not funded.  Now we still have memberships in the car  and to the school government,  because we use them for resources,  but the typical non-profits that we funded in the past,  none of those non-profits are included in this budget.  Only now.  Okay, so what I'm saying, if I could...  You guys are going to call it for sure.  Okay, so what I'm saying is you have 500,000  that's going to a lot of it, right?  Which is less than what they...  Yeah, I understand that.  So, and I'm fine with that.  How much do the library usually get?  They can show you what they've received in the past,  but I think it was a 100,000, 100,000.  Hopefully over 600,000.  Okay, so the homeless shelter is no funding for that, right?  The boards, the girls club,  tall room, tall room, none of this, outside aid.  So what I'm saying is,  if we pull back different areas,  like we create a position for a great range of all fundraising,  there may be 100,000 that we take out of that.  And you give the amount of $400,000 for the ladder.  That 100,000 is low to that position.  And then job, every day is to find money  to find these other non-profits  that we eliminate and fund the board,  like the boys club, the homeless shelter.  So that person's job will be to find money,  so we supply the organizations to be funded.  And then the library, you may fund it up money,  then you give them the host of $800,000 or $800,000.  Okay, so is the specific request,  because we're trying to get it down to White House budget,  we vote on upper down, right?  That's the whole goal here.  It's your proposal here to eliminate $500,000  in funding for the library and then fund.  No, not the whole $500,000.  I'm saying what will a grant writer  or a forest of causes?  Would it cost us $100,000?  It costs $125,000, didn't the rest of that go to the library?  But didn't that grant writer be $125,000?  And you need to consider it a dump money.  So your proposal is to eliminate $125,000  from the library funding and add a grant writer or so soon.  Yes, of our own.  Can we add that to the list?  And then we can defate the office and ask of that later.  I mean, I don't know if we're going to get caught  in this log if they never get out.  I think we need to look at the big picture,  here was back down from there.  So I'm just in follow up with that question, Mr. Vanger.  What are our obligations to live the air for?  I mean, these are for intergovernmental agreements  that would predate me, maybe even by birth.  What is current tradition and what  is the actual obligation to the library,  to the air for two gateways,  to all those agencies that we contribute to,  that we are part of, members of?  Well, I would say if you just take the library  and the airport, there's a specific funnel  that the city uses to give that one.  I'm going to tell you about my head that the airport,  for example, they have not increased their ass  of the city for the last, I know probably 10 years for it.  So their funding has remained flat.  For the library, there's a specific formula  that we follow that, where Nash County,  Nashron County, and the city of Rocky Mall,  all pair of percentages, and it's based off of that calculation.  During the course of this past fiscal year,  due to our financial position, we actually  had to pull back the amount that we had agreed to.  And the amount that we're budgeting right now  at fiscal year 2017, 500,000 is even less than that.  And part of that is based on that calculation,  because during the course of our auditing process,  we uncovered that our formula was different  from what was on the books of the library.  And so we were able to get to a good point  of negotiation on what we could offer them  with our current financial standard,  and they agreed to that.  And I want to say that,  even Nashron County ended up picking up  that difference for the current fiscal year.  So moving forward, we gave them notification  that we would love to continue to be a part of that.  And we feel like it's a big part of our community.  We would not be able to continue  at that previous moment.  So we felt like 500,000 would have saved that.  But if we put further than that,  it's going to be constantly detrimental.  Oh, no, no, no, I'm telling you that.  I just didn't know what the,  I just don't understand how it got funded.  Yeah, it's a little different.  And so the gateway is a little different.  Nash just in a council initiative,  there is no formula on how much we fund them.  It's just based off of,  they request over the last several years.  It is an increase year after year.  But due to our financial revisions back in the fall,  we actually decreased the amount that we were giving them.  This year, I think so about $325.  They could pull up the actual numbers.  But due to the budget process this time,  we do reduce a little bit further than that.  I'm just going to run you on top of that.  And this is on the way to side,  but if I ask you.  I think most of the time,  Christian Spray was funded by a virtual association.  That please takes me.  Well, I'm going way back and I'm getting older than I wanted it.  So it predates you.  There's a lot of questions to ask.  When did that become a city thing?  Excuse me, Lord.  Joe probably did pass it out.  Well, I'll take some and say,  but I know when I went out and out for the city back into that 19,  as much as I mentioned earlier,  it's been a city function since the end of that seven years.  And for the cause is pretty much remain lack over the period of some of the time.  So anywhere from 15,  you're not sitting down top.  That's right.  And thank you for the UCM project.  It wasn't exclusively made.  A lot of books about that.  I'm talking about this making a lot of calls on my chief staff here.  Cox carried a lot of the water on that too.  You know, that helped,  but I want to give credit.  In other words, it depends on, you know, that's important to me.  All right.  So are there any other items that, you know,  that we want to have or take away?  I have two that I'd like to consider.  The last to consider one was a micro transit grant that we received from,  we have received the North Island Department of Transportation.  However, what it will do is get capital grant $650,000 fund micro transit software,  hardware, however, we will need to manage that.  I believe that matches $136,000 of that $650,000.  But it's an opportunity for us to look at my transit to review fixed lines,  the NCDOT did conduct a study on that.  We do have that information in front of us.  And basically, it's an initiative to try to help those who,  to deal with the North Gulf have a lot of transportation.  So, I have to say that I have no idea where the lines will come from.  But I'm always trying to get a hold of this.  The other thing is the commuter bus system.  Again, we received collaborative effort by a lot of our community leaders.  But the grant of course, two points at that,  which is two and a half hours per year, three years.  But we're really talking about the 20th, 20th, 27th.  It gave us $3 million funding to create an extension,  basically, the Smart River transportation system allows to become a regional hub.  The purpose and point of this grant and initiative was to try and help our employees  for a lot of these initiatives that we have to dig ways into the city.  No one issues where a police come from.  And so, the watch we've sent you to that is we have millions of people  within the D to 60 mile radius of us.  So, let's bring them here.  And hopefully, we can sell them staying around now.  Against 20% batch of $200,000 for 300 years, for three years.  With this is at least $3 million for a big size.  So, I think that would look like commuter bus, you know, $200,000.  We'll put it up there on the board.  But just for consideration.  Are there any other items that you might be going through?  I have a question.  You're either sort of $135,000 for the micro transit grant.  What is that micro transit?  Is that like the on the man that we're talking about?  Yes, that's it.  So, that initiative, I started that initiative in the past year,  year and a half ago, I was trying to model up the Wilson.  We were able to, I was able to get NCDFT to take a look at that.  It was a few of the study for that.  We presented it as part of our transit.  It didn't really go where I wanted to go, it was only that.  But that's a conversation for a number of days.  What we did end up through the MPO having conversation was,  let's take our fixed route systems and let's re-reground that  to create micro transit at the point A to point A.  The study came back and looked places in the western part of the city  for the fixed route systems for paying for themselves  on a ridership on it, though it's a micro transit.  But I think I felt like that was backwards  and we sort of re-tiggered it with the idea that  I don't know if we can beat micro transit in areas  where we have a wealthier population,  where it is a place where from single law,  or trying to get the water, and a lot of transportation at 3 a.m.  is a bigger deal than just trying to wait for butts.  And so, we have those studies in-house.  We can start to give those to you,  for review.  I'm just asking that we consider any of this budget,  I think it's important,  and it was a lot of work to get to this place.  We were very fortunate that in C&C,  we're willing to do the studies for ourselves, both up  and to work with us on that.  But, you know, it's just one of those things that we'll die.  We can't, you know, and...  Hey, look, if we don't have the money,  I certainly understand what I'd say.  But yes, sir.  Mr. Mayor, on these two, the grant.  If there's a timeline for acceptance,  if we don't get that at some point in five,  but one of both could go away.  I believe there is.  I don't have that answer.  If we don't get it, I don't have it on there.  So, now, 135 would get us access to how much?  650,000.  Yeah.  And it's one from three years,  and get us access to three million?  Three million, correct.  243.  Yeah.  Or three years.  But 200,000 are also the current budget, right?  And I think we're kind of in a year to year.  I think the initiative here...  With that said, it is important to know  that you're a transit bus system.  That will be ultimately a providentization.  That's something that we're going to take all the home.  We're trying to find a private company who will take that.  We're providing, we'll call it seed money or a proof of concept money.  Their desire is to take that and be able to make this a profitable thing.  We're right now, so, again, now, this really started out as an extension of a fall process  in the chamberhead engaged in, along with other city leaders, probably,  you know, 19 years ago, or associated with the DMV moving here to Rocky Mountain.  And just got a little bit of any conjunction with the Gateway's partnership.  And with a lot of the folks that I've been talking to,  the Cummings and other places, how do I get employees here?  It's easy to approve for a year,  inevitably they don't want to go move to the triangle area.  Or when you look at the case of MVC,  of the 850 employees that were displaced, only about 300 of them lived in national national account.  So we've got to recognize that there's a much larger area.  Every single conversation we have, whatever it comes to,  it's worth a lot of positive needs.  We're worth a lot of positive needs for these.  And so it's got a little like one or two things,  you know, the jobs we're training.  We have a high unemployment rate,  we've got a provide transportation approach,  we'll give them work,  and then we've got extended out to a virtual room.  So that was the idea.  Again, the timing, I still stay behind those projects,  but timing may not be the best.  And so that's something I think needs to be paid.  I just wanted it on the list.  Yeah, and I think it's building up for the future,  because this budget is sustaining,  but we also have the budget that stood for both.  And that's what we've got to figure out for our artists, right?  And a little bit here, a little bit there.  Yeah, now like I said,  there's a clarity.  I'm not saying reduce the library.  I'm saying raise a light.  Also, we can give the library the full amount of funding  that we usually give them along with all these other non-profits.  So that's I just want to be clear,  that I'm not saying reduce the library.  But I know.  Well, let's change to that.  Well, I said you write about this for Grant Ryder  to the team of a hundred point thousand dollars.  Yes, that's what you're saying.  Yes, okay.  So also, I would like to put on a table.  I would love for this whole to be here,  because when she came to presented,  she was told about that she's doing work for software, right?  For this app that she's doing.  And I know that's it well with me because for years,  I've been told to miss all about  updating our technology and our software, right?  And now when I first came on council,  one of the biggest things that I've been learning  too was with the bills,  with the utility bills and that crisis that we went through.  We still haven't got the results back.  But as far as a lot of, we need to modernize  our building and collection, right?  So in order to modernize our building and collections,  we need to put money in it to get the technology  that Mrs. Holmes is working on outside after work.  Like why is she doing that?  Our department collects the most money for the city.  So I would love to put in the budget money  so that she could finally get the technology  to send the things that she needs  and make out building the collection  of the partner time.  Just for clarity, Ms. Hall was not  the right to do that.  That's something that she's doing on the long term time.  And not quite sure that's even something  that we're going to implement in the city.  All of our technology improvements will go through  our technology offices,  our technology services, and we would love to be there.  We'd love to have a technology  that we can have a money in the building by now  to start that project and not be a system.  But we have to do that.  We have to do our duty to find out how much that would take.  I know it's not cheap, but again, we will support that,  but we just didn't have the money to do that  like this in this current situation.  Yeah, so what I'm saying, I'm saying that you're  actually doing it, but she's doing it because she needs it.  Like when she said this, she told us  that she's still doing some spreadsheets, right?  So the technology needs to be improved.  Like before I got on this council,  we've been talking about technology and data  and technology and the building and collection of products.  So she definitely needs it.  So how much money is actually going to put aside  for the technology?  And without her being here,  they would answer the questions.  Is there enough money  that we can modernize our building system?  And again, a lot of our utility bills  didn't even do the update, you know?  And fun, fun.  All right, so I'll recognize Councillor Harris  and then Councillor Dawkeridge.  I think it will clarify what exactly the question is  because I think there might be some money  in the IT department associated with software  particularly on software.  And I think it's just a vital personal experience.  It's very, very, very dangerous  to do some good on applications of what not.  You got to hit the concerns.  You got to, you know,  just probably see information consumers  in the introduction of potential providers  is what is the side.  And, you know, does the system even work  the way it's supposed to?  Or are you using the way it's supposed to?  You've raised all this question.  So I think we've got to get it out of that right.  But you know, it's up to Councilman Harris.  Yes, the business and collection services budget  for this coming year is a $200,000 $5,000 increase  regarding contracts for an electronic pay.  So there are some ways in place  for improving our delivery services.  We just got to be mindful  that we just can't do everything all at one time.  And, uh, but there is $2,000,000 more.  This year.  And I want to bring to everyone's attention, you know,  you're currently going through the utility bill audit  with audit, which I believe we will be getting  the results of that pretty soon.  If not, this week possibly in the next two weeks.  And it was not wise for us to work on  implementing a change in the middle of the audit.  Because what we wanted to do was get the audit  back in the results of audit.  And then, uh, based on the recommendations  from the state audits office, try to implement  those things within time.  But I don't think anybody on council or staff  are disagreeing with that.  That we need to operate after now.  You know, that's something that we've been trying  to do over the course of the last  uh, several years.  You've just been trying to do it within  the compliance of our current life situation.  Okay.  I just want to say, Mayor.  Yes.  I'm keeping, I'm not saying anything  because you asked us to negotiate things later.  So I'll interject that.  Sure.  We're going to just put in what we  would slap up in here as opposed to  having that.  Yes, the question is, have we considered, uh,  the need to release reviews wasn't funded  if not, uh, where do you think we might be  sure of this manager and then that we  had, well, just do that.  That might be the way up.  Well, thank you for the point.  Okay, certainly in your budget and brief,  we'd have outlined, uh,  the major capital outlet project.  So then that we have 250,000  worth of applications.  That's $250,000.  I would say it's like,  like, to get a start.  But I would venture to say, uh,  and this without doing, uh,  having RFQs, RFPs out in order  to do a full-grown system,  you'd be north of Coffin,  a thousand on top of that.  At a mill.  But again, I won't know those numbers  until we'd actually get a wish from  this event.  But I think, uh, what  our director from IT,  as well as Natasha from the business  service center,  I don't think the day we'd like to go to, uh,  if we'd be new system,  I think it would just like to  upgrade the system at the end.  And to explain on my comments earlier,  you know, you know,  I think the entire council  would like to see the bill in your booths  in more detail.  So I think, um,  even before this, uh,  I'm just going to make that comment  because of some previous comments.  But so,  so hopefully we can just put things up here  in the panel.  Yes, we can.  It's forward because, uh,  I guess that's the question then.  Is there a request to add a visual  to this department?  If I would love to add a fund,  but I would love for, um,  this is this whole event,  so she can tell us  who's on what fund that she needs  because she knows she needs  in technology.  And maybe she already,  she's already trying to build technology  that she needs.  So maybe she already priced it on,  no, what price will be because  you've been asked to put this technology  for years.  So I heard to be here and tell us  what she needs to minorize in the department  and what that price will look like.  What they will be important.  I think that's what Elton just mentioned.  Yes.  What about it, but we don't know.  I think he just mentioned  he doesn't know the exact cost.  She won't know the exact cost.  So we've been R&D out there as a person  who haven't had any R&D system  with a much smaller, uh, level,  but still expensive.  You have to get through and do a lot of research  and just because you or I  or someone won't something,  you've got to counteract the,  the associated expense with that  and to go out there or even bring anybody  in here who has no knowledge of it.  I think it's premature  and we need to,  and I'm sorry to bake this,  but you know, we're here  where we are right now,  but it's premature to go out there  to $250,000 when I think  that would come up  while you're going through this process.  And if you even added money now,  Councilor Robinson,  there's only so much time  and the day that you can go through  and review everything,  get the work done,  you've got to start incrementally  to where you can get it to that.  And that's where we are.  I'm not going to understand where the city  right came out.  And as much as we'd like to  snap and get it done today,  I don't think we're in a situation  of a position where we can do that.  Yeah, so you're right.  I think we, I think we are really  kind of toward the way,  but is there just a number you  like to put up there, Councilor Robinson?  As a placeholder for conversation,  move on for down as it relates to  the budget.  I think  I will have  added number to put up there  if I could speak to the head  of the department  and she could tell me  that she's been doing this  for years,  which I guess she will have  a meaning  of what it called  because she's been  before.  I'm assuming that  I'm assuming she had input  in terms of the budget  that rolled up through the night  and you sort of  with her at the next  100% in the year.  So I have a ballpark.  So is it possible  to have a year  either today,  later today  so that we can find out  what the needs are  but it's this is why  because obviously  if she's building technology  on all this or need  so I want to know  what the need is  her needs are not being met.  So what is the need  for her not to be  trying to build her home?  Well we don't have a number to add  today, right?  I don't know unless we have her  maybe right now.  I'll recognize Councilor night.  I'll thank you.  So if that number  exceeds  the $250,000  we can come back  and just put in the budget to  you can't.  You can't.  You can imagine.  But that would just  tell the way  if it didn't do it.  Correct.  Thank you.  Just our customer here.  Thank you Mayor Longerson.  I'm looking at this budget.  Based upon  stable conversation  we have been with the LGC.  Their first point of focus has been  we have  got  real expenses.  You have got to reduce expenses.  And I think this coming  year we got to keep that  time of my  is controlling our college to  do so expenses.  Let us go through this coming year  to see  that continued efforts  that the city of May  about reducing the expenses  looking at  the additional sources of revenue  that we can continue  to add things to the list.  And  we represent  going to the LGC  for two weeks.  I can remember what it was.  And then they can look at  what  how you control your expenses.  So let's just keep that in mind is  what can we do  to keep our  expenses  where  this proposed budget is.  And  if there is a recommendation  to increase  a particular  expense item or new  on it,  we need to know  where  the offset  is going to come from.  We won't reduce expenses  in another department  or is there some other  revenue that we can put  at least all  said the ingredients.  So  let's just focus on what  the LGC won't  just today.  Right.  Thank you.  All right,  the other  just our customer option.  So,  yeah, reducing expenses.  When  we're talking to  Seattle down,  she said it's $3.8  million that she can collect,  right?  And that her  app that she was  procreating  that showed the  different collections.  So  by us up there,  getting our technology,  I think it's just going to make  a more efficient  and we could collect more  money  by updating that  that's normal  between technology.  So that's almost $4 million  in collections  that she said that  on that's outstanding.  So I think  given her department,  being on the department  collects the most  money  for the city  over 200  some million dollars annually.  I think I'm  making how to  probably the most efficient  and spending money  because we've been  collecting it for years,  spending money  and at the department  is much needed  and we're going to return  on our investment.  I just wanted to  just make a small announcement.  There was a discussion  about the library  and the library  of the records here  and it's  look great.  I'm able to ask  the questions that you have.  Of course, so  that she's been with the library  for several years,  but she was promoted  after the record.  You make just  just last year.  Yeah, just last year.  I've been with the  fragile library  for over 20 years now.  So I've been with  the up and downs of the  library and I just  want to say this morning.  Thank you mayor.  Thank you, council  for letting me come  down first.  And there was a shock this  morning to listen.  Do you've done  what it is to say  about how you wanted to  cut the library  for the idea  of the library being  cut another 500,000.  You cut us last year  and we made it work.  I just want to remind you  that the library  is a core service  of this community.  Okay?  We have Wi-Fi.  We have free services,  free programs.  You don't have the  camps.  The children come to the  library for free,  receive free  entertainment,  free education,  free literacy,  stuff like that.  The adults,  we just had a job  there last week.  We had over 500 people  in the library.  Many of the local jobs  employers  and thank you.  This is Courtney.  She's my sidekick.  She called me now  to make sure that  you know people are  looking for jobs.  We have that for free.  The library does  everything for free.  But you also have to  remember that we  employ people from the  city  county as well.  If you cut the library,  you're already making  me in the heart of  thinking is where I'm  going to have to fur  low hours.  Okay?  These people have worked  very hard in the library  to support Rocky Mount  and Nash County Ed  Edgewood County  to cut us is not good.  I'm not ready trying to make  it work.  Okay?  You've cut the parade.  You've cut all these  services and  community events for the city.  We're in plans.  The library's planning  to take out those.  We're going to have a  little fourth of July  on the third parade  with the children  around the library.  We have that in the work.  The library can take  up for the  community  that the city is having  a hard time  for you to do right now.  And by cutting us,  cutting us more and more,  you're almost causing us  to close,  which would be a very,  very great loss  not only to the city,  but the counties.  So this idea  that went around this  morning,  please do not consider  that at all.  Okay?  I have my ways.  My employees have ways.  I have the friends of the  library to find  money for the library.  Okay?  There are people out there.  You just reach out.  You don't have to  hire someone to find  you just have to take  up the phone and call people.  By cutting us,  it would be very,  very bad.  Not only for my employers,  employees,  but for the community as a whole.  Okay?  I've been here for 20 years.  I see Rocky mounted  it's low and it's high.  This is a very core service  that you have to recognize.  We are very important  core service to this community.  And by cutting us  and if Rocky Mount  loses it,  I'm sorry,  but that would be a very  huge lot  to everyone.  Thank you.  I thank you for your time.  Thank you so much.  Thank you.  Yes, sir.  Thank you so much for coming down.  And the library is  so important.  Next time, you know,  I appreciate the service  and the work that you're doing.  Thank you.  What I said was not  that cut the library.  Okay.  But what I said  was to create a fun  a great writer,  a fundraiser  that can add more money,  sort of  because we usually give you  what?  So I'm on the same dial.  So we can give you the  cool amount of money.  And what I did say is  that we have all these  other nonprofits.  That's really important.  Right by the library,  you have a lot of  UCM members.  Get to the library.  The fabulous people.  Yes, sir.  So we have to cut all the  requirements.  Yes, sir.  And recently we  look, look, look,  guys, guys.  You know, I think we're  just not real.  So we're getting  something else.  We're not debating.  You've such a point.  You know,  I wanted you to do that.  I wasn't cutting that.  That I would do the same cutting.  Charles, can I  put something?  Yeah.  You know, I think we've  had enough debate on  we raised the issue.  It's certainly something for  discussion.  The way it's voted on.  It was certainly  understandable.  And I think we all  value the library.  So don't hear the  dull.  Yes, sir.  And so I think that where we  need to do is we just need to  focus back on the button  process that we're on.  Yes, sir.  I just want to  thank you.  Thank you, thank you.  Your points will take you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  I'm sure that thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you, David.  That's it.  I would, um, you know,  don't budget.  Don't don't budget work session.  Um, you're smooth for.  I don't think that's a time for, um,  anyone requesting funded to come  going out of work session for  budget.  I mean, we have, we should have  our proposal before we meet  by work session.  I think that's very controversial  for us trying to, uh, move forward.  We'll set up when our decision is  that we need to make, uh, that,  that was just a promise.  I feel that because it's excellent.  When you're already talking about  cutting funding and then you can  have someone come in and  present it, ask for funding, um,  this is, you don't have that to get  very personal in, uh,  you know, as we just saw the young  lady in the library.  So I think moving forward,  if we could have our  proposal before the work sessions.  Well, I've done it.  And since the council,  I'm sort of in the green line.  Well, that's not good.  When I wasn't saying cut,  I was going to add on.  So, council, you said, uh,  you should clarify it,  but you could clarify it.  And it's a little list as we've got one  C rock obsession for a parent writer at  our 25th house.  The verbage about taking  Michael library has been remitted.  Yeah, so I think we're done.  Is it any other items that we want to add  to the budget?  They look to figure out how we're  going to fund these things  and from a prioritization.  I'd like to do a stronghold  just to see kind of where council is.  Uh, then we've got to figure out  what the soaps, um, some funding  of that would be.  And we have to figure out where the  reductions and in Belton's,  the banter and his team's budget  have to occur.  Yeah, and the one thing that I wasn't  going to mention to you, uh,  just the last neck without  utility bill.  If we are hurry in the process of  getting some of those numbers in,  so we should have those in the next few weeks.  Well, I'm not saying we'll have  in the time to include in the budget,  but like councilmember night stated,  we can always make a difference later that.  The other thing I wanted to mention  is just on the revenue side of four  councilmember Harris.  And we've talked about it.  It's been, it's been received.  It's been just added more expenditures.  Yeah, we talked about where the rent was.  I just wanted to write it by  not suggesting that this is what you do.  But it is around five hundred seven thousand.  Well, and I think we've got to come back to that too,  because you know, Senate bill 1076 has passed  the Senate sound house.  I don't know what it looks like.  But and I know that you have  minimized your team in the  presentation.  This budget minimized fund transfers  from the enterprise funds into the  offering budget.  However, there is still impact.  And we need to recognize that.  And we don't have beyond.  We've got passes before July 1.  The Senate and the House and the governor  can all pass this after that point time.  So we need to have a contingency plan  for just revenue to get to the breakeven point.  But I felt like that was some more  difficult conversation to have.  At least we get to the list and figure out  what that son total is.  At least to that.  Just sort of customer walk.  Thanks, Mr. Mayor.  I might have missed this.  But only cash was transitioned to  support the Senate and part of it.  Have we looked at cost associated with that?  Not in the term.  No, it's not in a.  It's not in a positive work.  But obviously, no, thank you.  Well, I would like to do this because I  just carry out from last meeting.  I will recognize your announcement.  The bar for the the analysis requests  for the SFN events in a project.  What options they look like in terms of  negotiating revision, contract,  contract reductions.  The full operation transition.  So it's an area, you know,  looking at the events that are  this break down in cash is transitioned from  marking the downtown development grant  commitments with options to reduce  delay or terminate status of that.  Looking at analysis for the  toll rate retransition.  We did pay a few requirements.  Major bid direct consulting agreements  ranked by reduction potential legal  expenditure review of the Dory  under utilization of CDL  properties, skill,  sales methodology.  This is who you're 24, 25, 26 projects,  over to the reduction options.  Credit enforcement receivables  build collective rate and all forgiven.  Utility right all stage receivables  coverage strategy and standing  monthly for force, which we have listed  for aging.  And so just kind of looking from you,  Mr. Vanter, where are you or your  team?  Yeah, all the stuff is underway.  Okay.  We got this, I think, on April 20th.  Yeah, it's all good.  Yeah, so we're currently underway.  Some of them have already been completed.  So for example,  I think we talked about  status of active downtown development grants.  We've discussed that in our own meetings.  You all know,  if in the public fiscal year budget,  we don't have any of those grants  included in the budget outside of  the four major centers that  were two of them are included.  But then I think the other two were  discussed.  So we've covered that in the detail.  The city property is that's an ongoing  study of projects over 250 reductions  for the past previous year.  We've already done that.  We've recommended that the projects  that we feel are critical to the city's  operation in this coming budget.  But I would like to remind everybody,  even though we have included some,  there are several more that have been  deferred that are more than 250.  So we can't, the more we can defer it,  the less the more likely will be  that that price will escalate over  the next several years.  Which is largely the follower transit  that is likely a six to nine-month process  that we will have underway.  Now that we have a new  chief budget officer that  the itemized events or expenses  that's included into the previous year budget.  But we are working to  make that a little bit more detail  that cash was processed at the  next year.  That's a ongoing study.  That's going to take us a few months  and then bringing it up.  She is an SFM contract.  That's something that council will  bring to you.  Sure.  In the next seven months.  So correct.  All those things are in process.  Some will say majority of them  have already taken place.  Right.  Thanks for that.  Okay.  Can we answer the board here?  You know, didn't get added.  I guess the request for  the main goal of building  and the upstate building as well.  Just okay.  You got it.  Can we put the dollars by it?  Because, you know, what I really want to do  is I want to tagulate what the total  it is from this whole list.  You know, maybe, you know, maybe we'll  take a little recess.  Let's do that once we finish this list.  And then we can talk about where the  money is going to come from.  Whether it's an immediate thing or  it's a late thing or whatever  that needs to look like, but that  brings some more semblance to where  we are going into Monday.  Which to be the public hearing  on the proposed budget.  So if you want to tell me now.  So I'm going to add to this list.  I have a question.  Question.  I have a question regarding that SFM  event center contract.  What is that up for?  No.  Think what you said.  Think what you said.  What's that?  What's that still?  And then you said once that equals  $400,000 dollars, right?  What does that add to the average  revenue stat to the cost of the  tax?  Once sent.  I don't know what once sent.  Like what?  $200,000?  I don't know what that is.  I don't know what once sent with the  at the current status.  So it's about under the $16 dollars  on average annually for  average median household in Rocky  Mountain.  That's based on the 7 cent.  I don't know what once in with you  once in.  Be very minimum on top of what's  already been included in the question.  I don't know.  I don't like recognized customers.  Lawrence Walker.  The customer here is that you were  recognized on that.  Okay.  They constantly teach they want  and then I'll come back to you  several questions.  So I guess  see the man's or mayor.  So the public know what  the micro transit grant.  And you know better go up  under the tar river transit.  They would kind of work together.  It does and it's come before the  India which are planning  localization or the DOD  process.  I'm just but there isn't a  match to that grant.  The 136,000 is our ongoing  commitment relative to drivers.  So we just it would need to add  136,000 off to the budget,  but it's not matched.  So I miss fuck on that.  I know it would like go up under the  that's right is part of the  tar river process.  The study was conducted in  conjunction with tar river.  And so again,  and we can get you those  those packets and I think that's  important.  Councilor T.J.  Well, thank you.  For some of the amps,  where we add in those,  the actual  cost,  operational cost,  at this time to a  large company.  No, no, I think we want to add  cross.  I mean, that's the whole idea  of this exercise in my mind.  It's just to listen all out.  Right? There's nothing.  And then we can debate  what each item is.  We feel it need to.  I'd like you a little  stronghold to just see  what Councilor is.  If it makes the list for  our financial Daniels and his team  to change the budget for review,  and then we're just going to go  from there.  Yes, sort of Councilor  to large one.  No more questions.  So I know with some account,  like the people pay to go to  account, but we don't kind of  see the money.  They don't even go have.  With the Christmas parade,  the same thing, right?  People pay to participate  in the parade.  Some people pay.  We pay others to do.  So it's a, it's a  most, but it's not a  cost of coverage.  I mean, it's something that we  do to help the  volume of life and help the  community.  But there is no  revenue generated from the  Christmas parade.  I think it's a  impact.  But something is, I mean,  I know you don't have the  exact number, but I'm it.  I can say it's in round numbers,  maybe a hundred,  hundred,  fifty.  But I will say that they  have,  you know, some camps are  starting.  So the kids are in other  camps throughout the community.  And I know they can be a  stepped off with this as well.  But I'm just curious.  Okay.  Yeah.  All right.  Anything else we need to add to  this request list?  You spoke to charities.  Tell us when did you want to add  any of those to this list?  Yes.  I would like to add the  and also list management.  How many of them?  Mayor.  As far as  reductions do we add that?  Well, we've got to find the  money.  I'll just add this in a  we'll come back and figure out  what you find it.  So I, you know, we're, we're  three of the things I weigh  through this, right?  But I would like to see  what the aggregate number of this  is, right?  And then I'd like for us to  debate each individual item.  I'd like to do a straw poll  to kind of create a priority  scale of the list.  And then we can turn this back  over to manager Daniels and his  team to help  our men or at least  help us with suggestions.  They were by money.  Because I mean,  I can find the money.  But I don't know what the impact  is to the operations of the city.  Either so, you know,  I think we need to be careful  about what I'm suggesting.  Or videos just cut.  Council doctor.  So to next week,  when we, I guess.  After we add this up,  we'll do eight each one.  I would like to limit the time on each one.  And also would like to really go  to the driver's rules of  you speak and you don't speak  again until.  That's why everybody else is  all right that way.  You know, we're it's not a dialogue  necessarily.  What do we want to say to the  big top? Well, I love the idea.  I mean, because otherwise we'll be  here all night.  Thank you.  Three to five minutes each.  Five minutes.  No more three minutes each.  Sure.  But stay in position.  Save it.  Yes, I heard.  Uh,  I need to put some dollar figures  here for those first two bullets.  Yes, we do.  But let's go back to the process.  I mean, I like where you go.  So this, um, I mean, how about total debate?  No more than 15 minutes per item?  I'm out. I'm sure that's that's a lot.  That's a lot.  Well, it has been three times one, two, three, eight,  twenty four minutes.  So it's the second first.  All right.  15 minutes.  Uh, 10 minutes.  Let's go 10 minutes.  You don't want it if it if it's  to start working.  We can just.  Do all calls go forward.  I think the biggest things we don't  have.  No, no, I got it.  I got it.  Is everybody good with that?  Just a general show against it?  You know, to adopt this.  Well, it's okay.  Got it.  All right.  Let's sit for 10 minutes.  You speak once.  Are you done?  That's the end of it.  And then we bow to it up or down.  The terms.  Kind of give a priority scale for  management Danielson.  His team to be able to revise his proposed budget.  Should I.  You should I have these things?  Like the boys, uh,  girls love nearly as close to our  neighbors.  We've got right here funding for outside  agencies.  Uh, okay.  Come on with a number.  We need to come out with revisit  comprehensive plan funding.  The demolition funding in budget plan.  I can tell you for the demolition.  It really just depends on.  I assume you're talking about residential.  Demolition is going to average in the work  from 15,000, so if you want to,  that's a this starting.  For the comprehensive plan,  uh, really.  Very hard to determine what I think, uh,  previously, uh,  100,000.  How could you guess?  It's a good start point.  So if I go with that,  you should call it 10 houses for the  150,000 breach.  Issue.  I like that.  I mean,  what?  Double where?  Demolition or?  I don't know.  I have 20 houses for 300,000.  It's a Christmas list.  And what what's that?  Just so that as a reminder,  what's that respectively?  I asked of council at the previous meeting.  Is what's come with the addition?  Because it has to remain a balance.  Then also recommend the reduced.  Well, I think I would rather.  To provide to you all that a little bit.  And the reason I say that is something.  I mean, I could.  Whenever that number is, we could say reduce.  Funding for employees by acts and that creates it.  That's not necessarily the best.  I'd like for you to take a stab at trying.  I will say.  We.  I'm not in favor from.  I'm sorry.  I mean,  we had.  I had some suggestions on where we had.  I wouldn't call it additional fund,  but we had flexibility.  Okay.  And that total list is only three feet.  Okay.  And so if you look all the mayor and the council had a contingency fund  that you hadn't really utilized over the previous years.  So that was at 200,000.  So when we were talking about the Christmas parade,  that was staff recommendation to instead of reducing the travel.  It's to take 20,000 dollars from the council's contingency.  That way we would have to do any more balance.  And we could just reduce the 200,000 to two.  I mean, so 180.  And then the Christmas parade be taken care.  If that's what you wanted to do.  Or the events,  the salary wages, the events in across the list,  we had about a hundred thousand dollars total  that pass them fairly with those of this projections.  But we feel confident that we just still get  not with the staff that we have there with the production  of a hundred thousand profit award.  Now on environmental strategic initiatives,  there's additional claim.  And then nine apartment reserves,  like it does additional.  So total of you,  that grant all of that to contingency.  Those are those that affect the bill.  You have about 350,000 dollars.  Okay.  Outside of that,  you think about the knowledge you talk about  a minimum of services in another hospital  in the Russian house or a big cell.  Correct.  That's the problem.  That's the wrong to us.  So as far as I think the four million dollars  and the 41 housing,  I feel we had some money that almost made me like  three hundred and a think about them.  So I was going to have to get some money  and that's on line.  I mean,  but what I wanted to propose,  I will teach you if you could say  here's some business here.  It's real quick.  If you would,  then the liquid taxes for closures,  a whole enforcement intelligence,  as far as legal,  but paralegal and attorney foreign,  foreign on them.  And what would that cost us  to deal with that in house?  And I believe the attorney or people,  itself,  find in a total of some tax  for coal,  just coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  coal,  benefits. So a little north of $300,000 total provide. Just keep in mind recently had a reduction  in boards and this will be adding to our personnel costs which is something that we were trying  to stay low because personnel costs is our watch's tens. And I thank you.  So are you wanting to add on to the list? Yes. Okay. We can debate it.  Um, thank you. So, uh, CJ, people with toy and house attorney, you know, they barely will  walk out there today. Putting outside agencies. What's the number we're putting on now?  House number drops. I think it was. Yeah. Oh, put it outside.  You see how much do we usually hear them? Uh, it's in the budget right in front for last year.  So I think that same amount. I think the total was around $2 million for all the outside agencies.  Two point of the minor thing. You really want to put that on the floor?  No, I don't. What I want to put is the rent writer and then if she's able to, the fund rate is  able to give money then when funded outside. All right. Well, then let's delete it from this book  from the discussion today. Yeah. Um, you know, it's about the fundraiser.  Yes, for canceling night. I don't want to point of clarity. Uh, who brought us up down  but with all the cuts. And look at that. This, which I didn't put anything on the list.  You can ask anything you could do. Leave the room in black with. So, uh, up in the  left side in the main room, which you had at the end, the balance budget, uh, that you presented.  I think you said one, one, two, you know, and you remind us that we did not,  they did legal consequences to those contract that we were obligated to.  Listen to the LGC and listen to other council members saying to do spendings cut.  And we got probably up close to $3 million on this list of stuff we have already  gone back in the air. I'm really confused because if we were trying to cut back and we do.  And then it's like every time we have a conversation,  additional things are being put back on the list. Then we go up for the date.  You know, like I said, the money is gone while I say it again.  Nobody stole it and we don't have it. But this thing like dismisses keep growing, growing, growing.  We're just going to keep the, I'm not going to debate. You're not the,  because you told us in the beginning, um,  what we could and could not do. And  what we're going to have to raise to, you know, far as, anyway, I just see this list rolling.  As I can tell, and it's confusing because we already know the position that we're in.  And when we talk about wish list, take the cows, but this list keep growing.  And then we keep getting presenters coming here asking us for money. We're already  in the position that we're in. So anyway, I'm just, I hear a councilman. I think,  I agree with a lot of what you're saying. I think it's important to at least go through the process.  And so that's what we're doing. And if anybody has the announcement and add all the lines,  let's try to total it off and then, you know, get into the debate with the stuff.  In just one point clarity, uh, the Memorial Hospital and, uh,  and the Duke's property were included, the other two were not included, but I,  I strongly recommend that council find that a discipline for those two.  And I think see they're working on, um, uh,  the honor they're working on. How much do the people have?  So, let's just take a five minute recess and you put it to, you know, I was kind of good.  I like that in a balance sheet, but a bunch of like that.  Take a five minute recess because,  after one, have the need for facilities and, uh,  11, 18, how about that?  That's all right, that's all right.  Thank you so much for having me.  Thank you so much.  I think that's what I was talking about.  I don't know, I'm afraid it's just a coincidence.  Yeah, yeah.  It's not just a coincidence, something that I don't know.  I don't know.  No thing is that I don't know.  Now come back.  Come back.  What's it?  They were going to do any kind of research.  They said we eat the pebbles, or the different caps.  So we could generate some more shapes.  Those are not the three things.  For hours.  I don't know.  They were going to be the same.  They were going to be the same.  Different, different types.  Different forms, different forms, different forms.  Different forms.  How much is bar joule?  Yes.  How much is bar joule?  How much is bar joule?  How much is bar joule?  Yes.  I'm going on good for you.  I'm going to need to run it by bug that you have.  So, for example, seeing you will be asked for sots on your phone.  I think it will go down, especially when we have work.  So, let's just discuss it right and get it out of there.  I mean, the other budget share budget, right?  Right, yeah.  And so, I'm just trying to get to the highlights and,  what is the total number good?  Maybe I can say that.  We call it something.  It's like two, maybe three, and?  We call it the number good.  We call it the number good.  Well, I don't think it's going to be that number good.  We call it the number good.  I think I was the second one.  And I was the first one.  I was the first one.  I was the first one.  I was the first one.  I was the first one.  I don't know.  How should we do that, Miss Tork?  I was going to run a continuous ten minutes.  I was going to say, 100 people, we have your present.  That's six, seven blue maids, a ten minutes.  It's called a minute, 15 seconds.  Let's give it a minute and a half.  I want it.  I want it.  I want it.  Hey, don't say.  Come on.  How are you?  I'm doing amazing.  How are you doing?  I'm doing great.  You're doing great.  You're doing great.  Hey, don't have another.  I don't have to do it.  I think it's like you have a red matte.  How old are you?  I like to enjoy the part.  It's a bit Iowa.  So.  Ah, I'm thinking you.  Don't worry about it right now.  This fit too.  not, you'll have three minutes to come and book a lot of staff.  And then we've got to read a bunch of points.  It's going to be a bloody night, and we've got to do it a second time.  But then we'll put it on the end, we'll put it on about 30s, 30s.  There may be changes that are going to work.  And I'm just trying to head that off.  So maybe I was going to win for the season.  You're going to be in the next minute.  You're going to be in the next minute.  Yeah, we are.  So we're not discussed here.  How do we have to make up any kind of tension?  We're going to be shortfall.  So to get one trace of it.  We don't really have any of this kind of person.  No, the branch transfers in this budget.  However, you look at the administrative fee.  In fact, that's just a lot.  I haven't got some, but I can get one.  I don't know what the cost.  But what is the cost?  That's what we've got.  That's the cost.  We're constructing a year in that sort of serious.  By increasing the 7 cents that you said,  I am the minus standing of you getting the money.  I was looking at what I was looking at.  11 points, something whatever you have to see.  That was also the last year and then I've asked you and those over.  It's not fast at house in the form of the past, but it would be a lot of fun, so it's a lot of fun.  The data was that, but it doesn't matter, but we've got to do now the area for all of that.  We have all of the other great songs you need to listen to.  I'm saying it would be a lot of fun.  Thank you very much.  It was a lot of fun.  This is a much more discussion and they will like to modify the budget, but I can't do that.  This is just this is what came up today.  Everybody's working in memory, so there's some infection to say the least.  Well, Tom, you know, I'm just freaking being this and you and I will make decisions on all of that.  It will be a lot more, and if we're hurry, we can get the right out of that.  The screen is wrinkly.  I want to leave, but I'll do that.  The limited discussion of 10 minutes.  Is there really gets a two minutes conversation?  Then we're going to a stronghold and either lose all or it doesn't.  Now, let me show you now the 10 minutes on clips.  I'm sure.  Okay.  We'll talk about that.  Where's Charles?  You got some worse at home.  They got to hold everybody's hand on.  Okay, we're back in.  So here's what we agreed to.  We agreed to wear a limit of the base to 10 minutes.  We will apply for our school or which really means it's your station position.  That'll be yet no more debate.  Then we'll do a stronghold, majority rules that bit.  If we have a majority on the stronghold, we'll include it.  You know, we'll go forward for a further discussion.  If not, it'll just die.  So that's what I think we'd all agree to.  And so I'd like to bring forth the read this was a comprehensive plan funding.  We've proposed $150,000 for that.  We agreed to that for an issue.  Yes, our thoughts on the option.  Yes, I think the coverage of plan funding is very important.  Because we already spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to get the data.  And would not have the ever.  So not the ever.  Ever so I think the finished a plan.  Okay, see you in minutes.  The way else you serve was.  I'm proud of you.  We're trying to do one this.  That's what covers plan.  Okay.  Anyway else.  Comprehensive plan funding, $150,000.  Give me a 10 minutes for the discussion.  No more two minutes per person.  Do you have any thoughts on it?  I don't know.  I don't know.  I think the conference of plan certainly important, but.  Where we sit today.  I just question if it could wait until.  Maybe like the manager said with the boss, but I would,  I would rather.  Have something like that if we find ourselves in a better position.  The food.  This is where the comments come in here.  There's my preference.  Go ahead.  Mayor I'll add for this.  The long.  Is possible that if the plan of position which I think is included in the budget.  Is at its stack of you a lot of the legwork in house.  That number that I threw out was just.  Contracting out doing something then.  But it could be less.  right now I'm just looking for the 150 yay or nay if you're telling me staff can do that at least  48% and I think that has impact but yes Councilor George Walker. No I think. We can do an  out subject of these but all sorts of things in my life that we can come back here we visit and  a late a time. No but not today. Right. Let's do a little stop all those in favor of moving that  4th incident or break fresh a hand. One two are all opposed. One two well no vote is a yes vote  so I would say I would say in house. In house yes we got it. Right so we're eliminating that for  the budget discussion as we go forward but we're going to task manager with adding that function to  in house staff. All right demolition funding of $300,000 that equates to roughly 20 houses  anybody wants to speak on this. The demolition funding for the budget so far so for 20 houses over  the next year. Does anybody want to hear speak to this? That'd be done in that. The demolition. I don't  like we've done some of it in the past. Yeah the quickness. It's not likely due to the age of the  homes and as vendors. We contract a majority of the demolitions. Let me say if this is the move.  I know it's one time he did some demolition. Yeah I mean we could we could attempt to but I  still even with the investment as this is removal there will be a substantial cost. That's the  large part of the demolition is that that's it's removal. So if you're saying 10 to 15,000  hours per house I was still saying seven or eight this for asbestos rooms. Okay councilor option.  So at war it's one two or three we have a bunch of houses that need to be demolished. That's got  a problem. I'm missing it and if we're going to need has to tax pay as to pay seven cents more and  I think it's going to be important that we find but demolition. And also can I say something about that  one kind of way? Joseph was here. He said it would be 125,000. I wrote down for that comprehensive  plan. So he's a 25,000. I know you're simple but I'm just saying that that matters that 125,000.  Okay. All right. Anybody else who's our customer here?  Oh thank you. I'm here on the set. Can we not I know we're stretched but can we not put a  greenhouse team together and maybe identify up to 20 houses that maybe they can do an early  assessment whether or not they have or that I have asbestos. Yeah I think we can maybe  focus right now on those houses that would not require a lot of asbestos.  I think we have one person on staff that's qualified to make those assessments and I know they  have a running list of the houses that are at one point been in scheduled to be demolished. So  I don't think that would be a hard taskwrestler at least determined which is based on the current  list. I would like to say again that I'm support Councilman Daltridge. It's critical that we've  got through the in this calendar year with the cash flow projections that we have provided  the secretary, the treasury, the LGC, now we have some government figures and maybe we can put this  on a mean budget update session in January of February or some things that maybe we can look  at going in the spring of next year but critically to catch flow projections or  further. Okay, Councilman Daltridge. I'll say them by my comment about the conference of plan  and agree with Councilman Harrison this previous conference about demolition. I think it's  finally important we do demolitions throughout the city but I think we need to wait until our  cash condition needs to be done and maybe we can move forward and actually do more but we find out.  All right and I'm going to take some executive privilege. I would propose that we work on this  funding of of monies or properties that we have to seal the process, leave the house, the  attack, let that see what we can sell and was left over then if we knew the conversation about  demolition in some of the worst areas. Anybody else?  That's right. So when you say- You said you were not- I mean so-  I don't know if that's the question, because you're going to take it in just a minute.  Well I know but we're- this is not the process we're using right so all those in favor of  including demolition funding in the budget 300,000 for this fiscal year as written if you raise your hand.  All right. All opposed. Okay. We're leaving along. I was just that we just find all  whatever we're going to sell to the closed bid process, seal bid process, open it up,  what does it sell? It needs to be limited and depending on the demolition we have that conversation  at that point of time. Rescue equipment and fire department. $50,000 is what we discussed.  I'll open up a discussion if I want to speak to this particular line.  I'll put that on there because when we raise the table from chief and I think safety  is one of our number one priorities and although if I had it and I know the condition of the  equipment but chief said that he could replace them so that's why that was added up there.  Live and safety is important to see if I can do it. Right. Anybody else?  Yes sir. That's my nurse. I support the risk here of quickness but maybe before  you continue supporting vehicles again in the springtime to see what I can't.  My last customer option. Can we go ahead and then you spend it for the cash position?  Well that's the conversation. We're pushing it. This is for the 27th budget.  We're the recruiters of all. Yeah so when because he was saying that we're our cash position  is better. So we only so we said not to move it now because then we're not  cash position is better. We can't move it. We can't move it.  That's count money. Now he said we can always do some improvements to the instruments.  That's correct. The appropriate thing would be to not include it in the budget if all the budget  as we present it as the imbalance. As we get through the gear our cash position we hope to  improve and at that point you can bring in the purchase matching council for the separation  out of ratings. If we need to pay some on the gap position at that time. Got it. So you don't  have to have to have a lot item in the budget at this point. We can just look at our position.  If we have enough funding going up for a year, we'll fix it.  I definitely think we're going to fly it so if that's the best way to go off doing it.  But if the equipment that you need to do a job.  Anyway else.  All those of them are including the bar equipment at this budget at 27.  We're going to line up. We're just doing line up a line up.  We're going to line up a line up. So yeah, this is about including it at the budget.  Then we have to figure out how the assets are going to be.  $50 dollars. We've got one question on it.  We just squeeze the interrupt rate.  Rescue equipment. Does that take long like five trucks?  That doesn't take it long.  Doesn't take it long.  The only thing that takes long is anything that we have to deal with for the equipment.  We can just purchase that now. It may have some lead time based on where it's coming from,  but it's not the same time as for the required job.  All right. Show hands on favor including the rest of the school.  We're going to put five parts into 27 budgets to $50,000.  Please raise your hand. Okay. One, two, three, four.  Okay. All right.  Lose on $50,000. Funding of two supported vehicles in the fire department.  Two of 100 and $60,000.  All right.  Marina, all right?  Yeah.  Okay.  Under the seat.  I'm sorry, but...  Oh, okay.  We'll be honest.  Yeah.  Those two vehicles.  Okay.  Hey, bud.  Anybody want to do that?  And I added the vehicles again to the same purpose, but I think after  I've heard that some of the transmissions have been replaced in these trucks multiple times,  so we're getting beyond in the life on these.  Talk about where to find these.  I would go into the life and say, again,  I propose we'll just sit down and change it.  It's $200,000.  Even more than they will.  You'll still have to find $50,000.  For the two fire department pieces in the budget.  But I'm also thinking we could just get one...  We might consider just one that's supposed to, and then use that down to $80,000.  And then go back to what we can talk about the contingency.  If we come back into the letter on the gear and find it, we need it.  Then we have it.  That's where out.  You've added that I don't be wondering about it.  About $80,000 on trails.  All right, we'll look at $1, $80,000.  Anybody else want to speak to that?  I guess for tonight?  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  There are support vehicles in the transmissions they have been replaced,  and it's good.  They're proud with it, until  the next one year.  There we go.  There we go.  That's the next version.  They said there's support vehicles in it.  Take it down.  Probably already purchase some big equipment, sort of, five minutes or so.  All right.  Anybody else want to speak to that?  Okay, show a hand.  So we've moved it funding one support vehicle for our department  for the current fiscal year budget to $80,000.  Show a hand, all those in favor, including that.  This budget today, you know,  please raise your hand.  That would be a problem.  Yeah, actually, I'll post  all right.  Strike that from the budget.  That just got the bird.  All right, Chris is for a $20,000.  Anybody want to speak to that?  Yes, sir.  Councilman Harris.  I proposed managing down your service  you can see a map in the Bayer and Council's budget.  We will lose that amount by 20,000 to cover  big questions.  We need that I think a lot of our citizens would like for us to.  Okay.  All right.  Anybody else?  I have a question.  Sure.  Yeah, two minutes.  Okay.  So as far as the  demolition rate, this is not first place.  It's all made about it.  You do it.  So we moved off that.  No, I had a question.  Okay.  Okay, we moved on.  We're on to the next item here.  If you don't mind.  Okay.  We don't bring on that.  So I was a sandwich.  I'm hiding the cover.  Christmas parade.  I got you.  Christmas parade.  The real Christmas parade.  Thank you.  You want to say Christmas parade?  All right.  Councilman Harris is trying to say Christmas.  That's right.  All right.  No other discussion.  Then all of my show of hands.  Who's in favor of moving the $20,000 to fund the  Christmas year?  And that's coming from the contingency.  That's what he's proposing.  Correct.  Okay.  All right.  Move that on.  $20,000.  Christmas has been saved.  All right.  The Epstein building, which was.  I guess one of the major project items that we had approved  previously.  We get folks who invested.  The commitment for the current fiscal year is $108,000  $436 for a commitment for the fiscal year.  So you might want to speak to that, please.  That's a point that I don't know what the legal rank case  is.  If you get signed, I know you do that.  And I think the manager is charitable.  Let us know your reference to that.  That's correct.  It really is a binding legal chapter.  That's correct.  It's like in the other thing that we see  in the past, it's difficult to solve for you or whatever.  That's correct.  But it's the foundation.  Got it.  Anywhere else?  I'm there.  Yes, sir.  That's the TXA Walker.  I know I'm missing the meeting with, but is that an active project  that I've seen?  It's an active project.  They have funded the snippet of mail.  And we had notified that that we were not going to pay  because cash crisis, but they came before us and basically  demonstrated that they funded it.  And they provided the white sheet that counsel  requested that you should have.  That shows their time schedule, their drawdown rate,  before that's what they stand on the project.  Yeah.  I mean, we're worried.  We sort of put ourselves in a position.  We're already funding two other projects downtown.  I don't know how we got  put on these two.  The message is not too significant.  Okay.  Anybody else can ask for a doctor?  I don't know if you can ask for a doctor.  The clarification on the contract is the contract have a  outhaul, but yes, it  I don't have right in front of me.  I think that you know it's all of the, I would like to review that  with attorney to find out what our causes and our options would be.  But I assume that it does.  I think it does.  And so this, the status, the status of this one  reporting the sheet is, I was in a pre-construction  completion until our goods were designed.  Oh, I would, I would, I would like to  maybe say we pay that piece out and then wait till,  you know, again, anywhere here or so to see where we all  pass, I think it's important.  Like it's a, it's a,  if that's just, it's also the one that has the  covert city covert, don't that never mind.  Because the city covert is going underneath the building,  I feel as if we need to  those works, probably.  So that's the main one.  Anyway, else, is that, is that  I know, I know, it's the one that  they go a lot has.  So it's not the absolute is the next one.  Okay, well, I've been in that case and I wouldn't say the whole  I'd like to, I'd like to, I'd like to wait until it's gone.  Okay, one, the money that they've already spent  that then, which is, I'm not sure how much that is,  it's quite architectural.  And then if we find ourselves in a better position  than it's, uh, good to hear that well.  And I would have to do that, but that's what I'm suggesting.  That's more awesome.  So as far as these downtown projects,  like I said, the previous meeting, I definitely  I'll support them bringing the downtown back.  My question was, with the money company,  $180,000, you know?  And how can we explain it so I could sit to us?  Because we say we don't have money to do  demolition and houses that would have raised  a property tax at seven cents, right?  You're proposing a raise a property tax at seven cents.  So, again, we have some money, I can't go from this  building for the due to this building.  And how can we explain that we can't find money  to make these wars?  These are people living next to these dilapidated houses  and you're able to do that.  So if you could, you need, well, respectively,  I disagree how you're kind of phrasing it.  So the budget has been recommended and it's been balanced.  Well, where the money comes from is the general fund.  And that's a cost for every fund.  If it's a general fund project.  So it's up to council to determine  which project you want to fund, which projects  you do not want to fund.  And that's where the money will come from.  But all of the funding for these projects  are going to come from the general fund as a whole.  You know, because I heard council,  my cash flow, we have to detect that cash flow, right?  So if we raise in people's taxes  and they have the bottlenecks so it's in dilapidated houses, right?  But we're saying we're going to find $180,000 to fund  this down some building.  What I'm saying to you is, does that affect the same cash flow  that the demolition is going to have to be a housing place?  I don't know how else to explain it down some of the demolitions.  But you say you don't like the demolition?  I should do that once.  Look, here's the deal.  We've voted on the demolition.  Nobody wanted to push it forward, not people.  We're on the Epstein building.  We're in 81,000.  Your position is you don't understand it.  Probably not support of it.  So does anybody else want to speak about two minutes?  Only support.  Depends on your way to money.  Well, we don't figure that out, Matt.  Yes, sir, Councilman Harris.  I really would like for Colin to take a look at these two contracts.  Because the regional contract with the city.  I don't know if it's time why I see a summary that  what was the date of the regional contract as it didn't reveal  extent to us is still in compliance, etc.  We need to get it update.  I think after the Bundy's  Council meeting with public input,  we might need to get back together for a trial.  But before we approve it, formally,  or June the 22nd, and that's definitely out of there.  But I'm concerned about legal contracts.  And we do something without knowing exactly  what we've got the needed to.  Okay.  And we also have our show hands, including in this budget,  you know, that we're proposing that we post the Epstein building,  funding $181,000, because we have a 2027 to shut me your hands.  All those favor, including that.  Yeah, can I respond to that?  No, sir.  We agreed that we were not debating that.  We agreed that we would be sick of our persistent state,  and we've got it good forward.  I've got one, two, all right.  All those closing, including the Epstein building,  funding of $181,000.  Show hands.  Please opposed to it.  That's two.  Who didn't vote?  I don't know how to do it.  We did that.  I was done on Epstein.  Yes, sir.  Yes, for it.  All right.  We'll move to any $1,000 into the next call.  All right.  Now we're on the main goal of building $554,688,000.  This could be your plan stuff.  Anybody who wishes to go mad?  This is the one that has the code over and underneath,  which is all about City Rocky Mountains failing.  So I feel as if we need to support this.  Trust me.  Anybody else?  I definitely support them.  Make more.  My question is regarding the funding.  And two ass of testimony.  How is I think that the city attorney has already  been willing to enter, and it's homeless, but we can't  go into it.  And I think we said that to Councilor North.  On the part of that.  Yes, on the right.  On the bottom, too.  So if he has weighed in on this show,  the decision is priority, I guess.  Yep.  And as far as in that white sheet,  did we show that we turned on investment?  It might be because one time when we were  sold and I was advocating for these grants,  we showed like a five years that the city can  poop the money, right?  They showed like, oh, I think it did something like.  And five years just shows that in taxes, utilities,  the city rule, we pooped this money back, right?  Do we have anything like that?  Because it's tough to stick here.  Why don't you have a white sheet, wasn't it?  I didn't see anything like that.  Well, I don't think it was the issue  that had a white sheet.  There's a representative from Texas without a clean.  That was my kid at that.  Kid did a budget, well, over the five years,  due to taxes, utilities increased,  that the city will meet back there might.  I could have a finance and budget staffer if you did.  Let me see if there's anything else.  Because I have something like that.  The streets and constituents were saying,  OK, you're not going to get this,  but we're going to put money here.  How can we justify that?  If I did five years, folded this money,  something to be back and made from there,  we could be creating taxes.  But one thing that you're going to do,  current tax value is probably not high,  but after the five to five to six years.  That's two minutes.  Anybody else wants to speak to this money?  Can I ask for a teacher at work?  Yeah, thank you.  Just the problem with reasons that the public is,  we've already selected two other organizations  and support developers to receive the Bay of the Center grant.  And so I don't know how we can not support these,  like we can't pick and choose who is supporting it.  There's a Ford Major Center grant across the board.  We just support it.  We can't pick and choose two years and one year.  So I think the justification is for downtown development.  We are making a decision to support  the major center grants that council  set for for downtown major in the center of the project.  I think I mean, that's, that's just,  we guess you can get, I'll talk with the ROI.  I mean, all of the ROI's are going to be in different  because all the projects are different.  But by the way, I'm pressed for this,  we've done it for, you've done it for two operating  and you have two that are also active.  So I don't know how to not do it.  And we also also add that these were previously created.  These people didn't spend money just without a sure chance  from the city.  The investment signal was valued.  All those in favor of carrying forward the main  goal of building $554,678, 27 budget,  Joe Hanson, we have one, two, three.  It passes through that to the column.  Some are kept at $45,000 per site, $90,000.  As anybody wants to speak to that.  When I'm ready for this mayor before we start.  Yes. So just so everybody learns that  if this is a crew, this will not be this sum.  The window for this summary has gone.  The funding would be for the two.  Great.  That's awesome.  Let's see.  So I guess that's one of those conversations we can come back  and look at later on in a year or two.  Yeah.  Okay.  Did it?  Yes, we're all right.  Can I say?  Yeah.  Okay.  So yeah, as far as, that's why I think the next one is so important  to fund the city right, right?  Because that fund is a kind of fund money.  You would do yourself well to keep the topic.  I'm just saying that money can be found for the sum of cash.  Okay.  So the money that they can find can fund the sum of cash.  So do this.  You see that?  All right.  It wills.  All of us.  Yes, sir.  Can I buy it?  So if there's anything that we can do for this summer,  maybe if we don't offer the cabs,  have additional TV and unit centers for the children.  Oh, possibility.  We've reduced our staffing from part time,  but we can easily add a couple of part time staffers  that do some program at the end of the series,  because they are open and available to the public and the kids.  So that's probably something that we can do.  They probably, you know,  the number of additional activities  are going to offer an ACM.  Correct issue.  But I do support the sum of cash.  So that's just that.  Councilman George Walker.  So I think I agree to like someone said,  maybe we still got things at the community centers  where the kids can attend.  Even if we do a college tour throughout the summer,  even if we can do a day where we do have a bus set up  who can partner and ask how they're taking to the pool.  I guess sponsor by the city or something like that,  which they know, maybe we just didn't do that  to some small stuff or something like that.  We can have days.  I would, I would caution us about actually taking them,  but we could have on a day because they have waivers  and something else to sign in because they're not registered  for summer camp.  It would be a little different,  but we definitely have like days of the sponsor at sunset park  or additional room.  And we can sit down standing partner  with the students and the people that are doing camps.  Even at a discount rate, if you need to,  which is not very expensive to take anyway,  but we could say, hey,  this says where I have a summer camp,  we'll open a pool just for some of the camp keys  that they've got there.  So that would be a good offer.  Yeah, but I figured the fun that there's a pool,  we look at option,  uh, similarly what sponsor by the way we look at options  of how to expand the existing summer camps  that aren't here in the city.  Maybe that is some of our part times  that we're working on with other camps.  So we expand those camps or providing  whatever additional funding if this is approved  to force those camps to expand them  for, uh, for our kids and our part time staff  that won't have the summer camps  and don't have, uh, I would like for us  to be able to export it after the funding is approved.  Okay.  Any rails?  So the install pool here now is $90,000.  We're $5,000, $5,000 personally for next June.  Uh, all those in favor, please show your hands.  Okay, move on to the next column.  Funds to be right from our position for grant water.  Want to speak to that customer option?  Thank you.  You're welcome for it.  So when I was, um, maybe five years ago,  I was begging for a grant rate.  I was going around knocking on everyone's door  to get a grant rate.  But down the town,  Council met under night and Councilman teaching walker  brought that year and it was able to get a grant rate  up all over it.  And they gave us three months contract.  We're doing a stream contract and a grant rate  was able to find $875,000 in the city.  So I think grant writer or fundraisers,  even if it's not a staff position,  if we get a consultant that will pay for those itself,  and also it will help us get the money.  I used to, I shouldn't use the word cut.  Got me a trouble today.  But it will help us give the money to the library.  There's 700,000 that we, we used to give them.  So wherever we find the money,  I think their grant writing can help fund all these organizations  that we're saying that we're going to cut  like the voice club, you at UCN and other organizations,  they can find money so they can find out.  They may have a role to accept the number  and they're able to call some people and find money.  Thank you.  Anybody else?  Yes, my hair's.  Well, 10, my concern is  Vander Daniels and his department managers  and other people here, they have gone and reduced empty needs.  And we go in and hire a, a good person.  I could probably say any department in his organization  has a critical need for one unit first.  But a grant writer, we bring that person on.  He's going to take 30, 60, 90 days to get through the hiring process,  the beginning process.  And it might get another 90 days before we even start having  from some potential benefits.  But Council, I'm excuse, imagine, Daniels has said,  we've painted most of the grants now with some sort of a map.  And I just think at this time, it's just something  that I should, not even the part, just don't consider.  That's from Docu.  That's my hair's pretty much summed up without  say, but I would add that a lot of these agencies can do some of this  themselves. But the big thing is the match.  We all the grants, we want, we forgot to match it,  we don't have money.  So those reasons I think I can just move on.  Correct, anywhere else?  All those in favor of carrying $125,000 on the 27th budget fund  agencies and support grant writers, please show your  all those posts.  I need, I have one, two, three on ETA,  and condo, you can do it one way or the other.  It's like that, all right.  Item dots, all right.  Like it turns out grant DOT.  And I want to speak to this.  I've always put it in place.  I've got those applications.  It says the match.  Can I get it?  The micro transit, the grants for $650,000, that is in place.  We have studies.  The 136,000 is what the ongoing outgish would be fun,  a driver, a driver's, to be able to do micro transit in public, so.  So no clarification.  This saved money off of the driver transit.  We're too late in the season because you have to do the  facts to.  We are not too late.  The grant is in place.  There's a study.  The study was done from really time where she's gone now.  So it's probably something we ought to take up and consider.  If you want to table it, I think that might be appropriate  to look and see what those numbers are.  But I hate for us to look side over it.  Well, I think micro transit in the long one could save  the city, Rocky Mountain, money, and also improve our service,  because that's kind of what else has to do with what we cut.  If we had micro transit on some of those routes that are not heavily used,  and try to flip this name into that, or is it too late in the season,  you kind of get to instead of approval to look at routes.  I do think it would take us some time to go through the routes.  I do think it's a possibility for us to adjust once we get the results of that.  So I think it would be possible to be mature.  I think it's too late for us to do it right now, right.  But I think, can we go through the basically the study  that I said we've lost the phenomenons?  It was also that study that showed us some of the routes  where micro transit would be most successful.  And I think the mayor, where the mayor said that, that's already...  We have that study.  We were doing that study.  India has looked at it.  What I think maybe needs a little bit of look  to see is, are the routes really what we want or not want or did want?  I mean, that was actually very difficult to get that idea across.  I wouldn't have that constant conversation  if they submitted all, maybe just table to this.  So we can at least get all that involved in it.  Yes, I think there's some things.  I believe that it increases, and folks who are unable to get employment now  feels transportation.  I think it creates a lot of benefit for us,  but for all of this things, I'm on it.  But if we can, if the world is processed and we can table it,  I would suggest we develop it, we can get to it,  we can be at the whole mayor's hotel in half,  maybe 30 people have been discussed,  because I think the long term savings,  again, it's a benefit to the city,  along with the improved service to...  But...  There's some intangibles, but I, you know,  the money's running a little tight.  I think we can get there,  and let's have that conversation.  We can have it in a great detail.  I'm going to say...  Okay.  Yes, sir, Councillor.  Yes, we'll leave out the information before...  We won't have the intention to talk about this,  just for what it's about.  Now, that's not changing in the same time.  So that's 300 some dollars.  So let's keep in mind, if we get the information  and we're going to move forward,  we may want it to start in.  Yes, you know, we have the money in the budget.  You're going to start to do something.  That's right.  That's right.  We're thinking about rates and stuff that we have to...  Yep.  To add it in, if we don't, we just add the dancing.  I gotcha.  What I'll do is...  What I'll do is...  What I'll fill you with is...  So we're going to circulate everybody,  and then let's just have that conversation.  You know, I think...  I think in most cases it's just the ability  to accept the grant bonus.  Be sure to have someone to teach you anything.  Yes.  Thousands, I'm marrying a boat on it.  Thousand-eighty-boy.  At least we know we haven't.  Okay.  Money we don't, but if it hasn't,  if it hasn't, if it hasn't.  No, it's...  No, I don't think so.  Just my hair is...  Oh, yes.  I thank you, Mayor.  Well, I'm saying,  eating special sustenance,  eating,  or cost of equipment,  is that coming?  Where does that come from?  That's being paid for by the grant.  Found a grant.  I guess.  A death for citizens.  That's right.  Well, that's the...  That's right.  That's right.  No, I don't think so.  That's the...  That's the option.  So as far as the studies that you already done,  they tell you what routes  are deficient and what routes  they're going to have people on it.  So can that information be passed  on to the transit?  Now to see how we could...  Turns out, it has a...  Like how?  As soon as it's seen in...  Yeah, I think that they were a part of...  Yeah.  Kelvin, full of stuff to get in order for us to even get the grant.  So they have that information.  Yeah.  So can we use that to make our current bus system more inquisitive?  I think that's what they've been talking about.  So we're solving them off.  And because now we've...  The bus, one of the things that we're talking about  is that the TART river is corn on routes  that may not have as many riders.  But if they have that information,  can we use that information to make our bus system more efficient  before that sixth state wants to study?  You know, that these routes somehow currently work in...  That sounds like...  Yeah, and people...  This is just the way you say that.  I echo a councilman in the live set.  I mean, Dr. Rutzfart, I'm...  Yeah, look, Dr. said,  okay, I was just wondering  like the information is there  to make the bus system more efficient, right?  What we stated earlier is that  we cannot change our current bus route  right now because we have federal funds on that.  In order for us to change those bus routes  we have to take time to do the study  and recommend a good move on the road.  Well, I think what the mayor is suggesting  in what councilman would argue to say  is that once we have time to get that information  to Michael Translomat,  we'll use our current route system  but we'll supplement  I hope you'd be efficient  in the long run safe system.  Okay, because the mayor said  you looked at the bus here  and we'll see...  Yeah, cool, man, right?  We'll see.  Well, we'll see, man,  we'll see...  Tell me about the correct man.  He sold the bus system  and they do it on the main  right here, so...  Good, thanks for that.  So...  So it's not just that.  I mean,  Seville has done it.  Morrisville has done it.  There were a number of my career transit systems  that we looked at  that included fixed route  as well as, you know, point A, point B,  all those are included in the study.  And so,  yeah, that's the point.  And so...  Yeah, I got two to say  ready to let's vote on  and get the money in the budget.  Some are saying,  no, that's all we're trying to do here.  Yeah, to get in the bus.  I just want to make sure  because the Wilson...  If he was to go to Brown,  then Wilson and so on.  Will we still get federal funds  since something out of that?  We will have to determine that.  I know that the city of Wilson  and the other organizations  are supplementing those  with, you know, point  reproduces with them.  Right here.  Yeah, all right.  That's our two minutes.  Anybody else?  We have.  Sorry.  I'm eliminating that bus.  It's the same.  No, no, no, no.  This is our eliminate bus.  This is an argument too.  All right.  All those in favor  of $136,000  moved into the 27th budget  related to the microtransit.  It's an opportunity  that we have raising up.  One, two, three.  All opposed.  I thought we were going to table.  Well, I thought we were going to table it.  Yeah, table it till the next.  But I mean,  the idea was,  we should see if we can find the funding for it.  That was,  what do you all want to do?  We're going to table it.  I got a motion table.  We have one second.  All right.  All right.  Let's put it that over now.  Table it.  All in favor.  Three.  All opposed.  Well, he may ask the table something.  So we've got three boys.  We can call it the time.  So let's get a 27th.  But we're doing this.  That's wrong.  Yeah.  You're doing this.  So no, I got the phone.  Added to the 27th budget.  $136,000.  So all those in favor.  So yeah.  All right.  Okay.  Now,  computer bus transit grant,  DFT,  mages,  $200,000 per year.  For three years is the all case,  the commitment.  But we're talking about $200,000  in the current fiscal year.  It  forbudges us with $3,000,000  in funding,  four meter bus system.  Again,  searched out to at least 50 miles.  First route.  Be Raleigh,  two bucks a month.  And then  it adds from there.  Okay.  Anyway,  else.  I think it's a great thing.  I wish we could talk some  product funding to bring that $200,000.  I mean,  just because it's.  That helped us.  Edgar.  Employers.  Provided, but, um,  thing with it.  I would put this one more to the  if we have any.  Jane very less.  That's grant funding today.  I'm about sort of in the time.  Okay.  Raleigh.  I spoke.  Council doctor just said, uh,  where it depends upon the nature of the  the grant.  And when we got that sounded out of the one.  Maybe that, but that if we can look at it in early  county year 2027, uh,  I would like to see that.  If that's possible.  Got it.  Well, this is a customer.  Yeah, I think they, uh,  if it passes, it has funded.  I think some type of a reimbursement, uh,  from corn per sector.  That will be utilized.  I've been in from this.  I think that would be helped.  I have that.  I'm saying to you.  I'm not sure.  You don't feel we've got to do the fun.  This computer transit.  This was the one from here to the  here, Raleigh.  That ultimately extends from here to  this city in South South Virginia.  So several different several new browns.  This is this funds.  If you will, the initial proof concept round.  Let's be compared to the triangle.  That's.  And it and this opens us up to on the $3 million.  People with the year.  But I think that this is, um,  in the future as well,  because we want to still have growth in this budget.  So that's why I was supported.  These banks will send it.  Um,  with us for, um,  grouse.  And more people are going to come into my city.  And so our town is growing to see.  Well,  all those paper included this on the 27 budget.  Show hands on two, three, four.  Okay, it goes on in house legal support.  300 down dollars.  So I would like a.  Uh,  clarification and there you may have a experience with this too.  And if I decide, but keep in mind,  this would be the base rate for in house legal counsel.  There's likely even if we do have the in house legal counsel that we still have.  This is outside for specialty cases.  Well, I'm going to take a moment to say.  I've done this before.  I think it's a terrible idea.  I've never had it or it's a costing pop times.  Whatever that number is in my experience,  but um,  this could be different.  And I don't give a,  a little talk.  Anyway,  anybody want to speak to it?  So I understand the concept I do.  And I'm sorry.  Let me give you minutes back there.  I understand the concept,  but I think again,  to create some sort of incentive for somebody to do all that legal support for us.  You know,  success figures something if we can do that.  Would be a much better.  Because  you know,  it's not like Castle Robson.  I step on you there, my apologies.  No, I was just talking to some other municipalities that have done this.  And I'm not saying that we stop the legal service that we have now,  but it'll be a addition to it.  If as we have a lot of the legal taxes,  a lot of whole violations and things like that.  So we had a one staff on pillow legal and  attorney can make a focus on some of those things.  And like I said,  I've seen this be successful in other municipalities that they had outside.  And it was able to bring it in.  And I think it is raised some revenue for this thing as well.  You have a fairly impersonal role.  And can I speak?  Can I speak?  Can I speak?  Can I speak?  Can I speak?  Can I speak?  Can I speak?  Can I speak?  Can I speak?  Can I speak?  Can I speak?  Can I speak?  Then there's a thousand fallen碧's.  That's a one guess to raise funds.  We offer that, but hotel raise a one guess actually and they don't have to be  asked that could be a consultant to as well.  Can I speak to everybody else?  You know, class of the inhosp vähän.  With where we are though.  I wish you consider this right now.  I'm all about,  there's a lot of property tack to 17.  I think we need to the Parte c moldee process,  us especially when we start finding somebody but I think at one time the city we had some contract  attorneys that maybe retired attorneys that worked on some of this and I would like to see us  when we get the better physical place to do this and I'm all for getting back the money associated  code violations but I think we can send that over to a election agency. The only thing that this  would really do is work for the foreclosure process and I think we should do that. We put the  property back in the roles and we could get revenue. In addition it's not fair for people paying  the property taxes and they're not paying property taxes. So we do need to go with this but at this  time I don't think we should they're down that way because it's a long process. foreclosure  I think it's probably a year or longer process. Okay. All right. Everybody else?  Can I stick on foreclosure? No. We agree two minutes. We're just just  number down. Right? Anybody else? All right. We're going to be just asking  if I think we'll support the .7 budget to be answered for a further discussion. All in favor  straight by hands right to all those. All right. Does not pass. All right. So here we are $1.2  million dollars. So that's some of your $1.2 million is what we have that  council has decided to be willing to budget. SAC has already identified $350,000 that we could  use based on the 99th dress at the beginning. So that leaves us about $880,000 that we have to  find or even increase revenue. So I would propose this if you will call in whoever to review the  contracts in five to four to 90 to really talk with timing when we have to pay it with the same  thing with these other grants. The $1.36 and $300,000 that may close the gap for you or for us.  And there may be some flexibility of that. We're not contemplating here that we are  sitting right maybe when we pay for this. And then full consent to the regard in the city council.  But I think we should. You have asked. So that's what I've been doing so  so neck over. We should not utilize a full originally. Not originally but based on this. I just took  the total amount everything that we have. We have $200,000 in mayor council contingency.  $50,000 in events in our salary weight is $50,000 in cost of goods for events in our  non-departmental strategic initiatives, non-departmental reserves. So those items together  are told pretty good. So if we utilize all of the recommendations, we have about $880,000  gap that we got to find. You don't want to spend your time or increase revenue. As I'm assuming,  but I would like to hear. I anticipate you all want to find it on cuts, correct? Or like you said,  mayor and Tommy go, when we have to pay the service basis, it may have to pay after June of next  year that may fall to the next visit. So we did have some flexibility there. But if not,  the total was about $800,000, that's it. Have you got to find it? All right. We know that.  Customer option. And this is an excuse in updating our bill and the collection line and lines  and the bill and the collection that's told us. So the manager has presented a balanced budget  of which we have now just changed. With an increase, $1.2 million expense. And so now we've got to find  the offset to that. Either the bank sale, the car wash, or reduction. I will say that we may have  some community investment, depending on some pending, economic development things that may be  addressed that to. But we won't know that until that. So I understand we have a closed session that  we need to do. And then we come back and talk about funding these points. So I think it's  economic development, especially if you think we shouldn't talk about. Okay. So that. And we did.  Yeah. The lessons from doing that. Let's do that. And then we come back into the  assertion. Yeah. I just wanted to ask for us to hand out the bill and the collection of  funding to have them here to how you can update them on and on. I'm doing the collection. Sure.  So can we add that to long if she gets the number because I think I'm a number to.  Let's come back. Let's come back to that for a little longer. But I've not a general idea.  Custom parents want to talk about recognition. Yeah. Well, I just want to ask the manager Daniels.  The other two downtown. Right. You got it. That $1.3 million in next year's physical budget.  They're about this. Is that all. Are we sure all of that for the years in the July one three June  30th? That's the anticipation. But what doesn't. What we are planning on doing, I don't know if you  recall, is that for all of our major capital, our privacy, that we think will be multi-year.  We're going to put them in a multi-year budget. So moving forward, once you all are moving once,  you have to approve again that they'll be in a multi-year sunset. Well, I'm talking about this  downtown development. The grant. The more the hospital see like they got theirs over in  27 and 28 this year. That's where I'll state it. So moving forward, once it's approved,  staff is on a set up on multi-year fund. So it will cover all of our capital projects that  not just in one downtown will do anything else. Right. It's going to take more than a year to fund.  Vice-Council approves that first time. I just want to get back to what we just mentioned,  operating staff and getting more to talk about. Relations and set forth.  I think we've got $250,000 in the budget. The manager has in there. You've got to get that done  first where you can move forward and other things, which is what I tried to explain earlier.  So if we get if we if we go through the process, even if we added additional funds in there,  you could institute it based on my understanding in the upcoming FY27 budget. So I'm not sure why  we're going to come bring the person back in here. We'll talk about things that we all won't  think that are needed. But we've got, you know, it's like before you get a college, you've got to  got to get through. Kind of going all over to graduation. So we've got to graduate first  before we get there. Am I accurate when I'm saying normal things? Well, I won't comment on the  kindergarten staff. But I will say that you do have plans to upgrade your technology. I think we're  going through a process of where we should have estimates on what that would be. And I think at  that point in time would be your program. You know staff available technology as well as  building service to discuss that. But I will say that I know that tomorrow tomorrow is  will be unavailable for myself. That staff as well as America's. We have another appointment  this morning. In the morning, but we're doing the afternoon. There's a contingency to it. We'll  come back to that. Can I get a motion that I go to close session? I'll pay her. We're in class  session. And I'll tell you what we're going to do. We'll come back to all of us. Don't worry,  you just need to go away. But  I'll go here.  Hey, uh, yeah, I can't say that she didn't notice the closed sessions. So we can  I'll be going on a call section. But there's two years back.  We got more.  He was just a mess.  He was worthless.  He'd be here in the morning.  He was here in the morning.  Oh, take that one.  Okay.  I'll get it.  But...  Okay.  Ah, okay.  Okay.  Is this happening on point close on that?  Oh, shoot.  Oh, shoot.  I don't know.  I don't know.  We're turning this around.  Really, really.  Look.  I thought the whole thing would be fine.  That's it.  Let's see.  Did she say it?  Hmm.  Can you go with that, our mother could not be involved.  She's going to hide.  You wanted to hide.  You  You