 Thank you very much.  So yesterday, obviously everybody knows we had a council meeting, everybody was present  for that. But, um, Mr. Manager, why don't you give us an update on the L. G. C.  meeting yesterday so everybody can kind of be on speed on the going zones if  they didn't watch it. Yes, sir. Yesterday, uh, myself, Cheryl Spivey and  the mayor attended the L. D. C. Meeting yesterday. Riley, uh, for the  most part, the entire commission was pleased with the city success. They  had a report outlining what we are from a financial position going back  the start of our financial crisis as up to date as of last month. And so, as  I've expressed to you and I've sent you information regarding our cash flow,  we had a projection for May, uh, that ended up when we did here when we  didn't end up on close out in the being about $8 million higher than  expected. So that's a good thing. So we feel confident that we will  get through the summer months. We're still on what I would consider  gradual ground, but it's definitely not as low as we initially projected.  And that is a direct result from some of the actions that council has  taken based on staff recommendations. I want to thank you all  individually. It is a whole worth of heart. Okay, uh, that stated  they've asked us to come again in July because they want to see where  we end up with the approved budget. And then I think we'll they'll  still monitor where we are from a physical position, but I don't think  we will be required to attend them up at that point. Okay. Thank you  very much. Anybody any questions or comments? Yes, sir.  Any particular comments on or questions from L. G. C. Where you  be aware of?  Uh, the only question that they had with regard to, I would say  all of our funds was they had some questions about the transit  and what we what our plan was for that. I told them that we  were evaluating that from a federal level to see what our grant pulldown  would be. And I also informed them that from a general fund perspective,  we will properly do a better job of budgeting the variance that we had  in previous fiscal years, which was a portion of the recommended tax  increase in the general fund. And to remind everybody, not including  this council, you talk about that just that piece of you're talking  about the variance or talk about the impact it's had on password.  Yes. So for the transit fund, specifically in the last year, it's  been operating at a loss. And so on a month a month basis, we've  been close to about $3 million. That's not to say that we've  lost $3 million on a month a month basis, but that's just our  operating position at the current state. And so that is a direct  result of not pulling down the appropriate amount of grants, and then  the city not having the appropriate amount of match related to those  grants. Moving forward, we do anticipate having a better pull down  and a better budget with regard to that. But in across the state, I  don't know many transit operations that operate in a huge margin with  regard to profit. But I do think there are things that we could do  from a strategic standpoint operationally and with the budget that  can help us close that gap, which is what was articulated with them yesterday.  But we're limited what we can do in the transit just because a lot is  tied to federal grants. So we make cuts to say a route or anything.  We cannot do that arbitrarily or even if not arbitrarily, even if  we think it out well, we believe we need to cut a route, it has  to be approved. That's correct. From the federal perspective first before  we can even... That's correct. And in organizations that I'm familiar  with throughout the state that had a similar issue, the studies that  they conducted have been six to nine months. So I'm assuming that  we would be in that same predicament. And so we hope to have  in our, I guess, the next fiscal year, a better plan with regard  to working out that variance. But I do think this current year's  budget does address it a lot. Okay. Thank you for the  clarification. Just on that, what's the timing of all that? Because  that's something that could happen over the next operating year, next  fiscal year. When we start seeing clarity on that? I think we will  start seeing a little bit more clarity during the fall. I think  our priority now is this year's fiscal year's budget, as  well as ongoing audits that we currently have. And once staff  can kind of come up from here with regard to those projects,  I think we'll be able to have more staff availability to conduct.  So it's not necessarily a seasonal thing. It's when we can get to  it. We got the bandwidth thing. Okay. All right.  All right. Well, I guess that takes us down to the core of  what we're here to discuss. We had added $2.3 million worth  of additional expenses and stuff that we'd wanted to add into the  budget. We were able, through voting, to get that to, call it  $1.1 million. We had $350,000 in contingency funds. So we have  $746,000 worth of expenditure that is not included in the  budget. And unless Manager Daniels and his team have found  some magic dust, that's kind of where we are.  Well, I wouldn't consider it magic dust. But I do think we  have a strategy that hopefully will be pleasing to the  majority of council. So over the last few days, we were looking at  different ways to accommodate council's quest priorities. And we  had that difference of about $746,000. One thing to keep in  mind that we stated to the LGC, as well as the report that  you all received just a few days ago, we did have that  additional, I would say, close to $8 million projection that  ended up being higher than expected. That said, being that  we have those funds currently in this year's fiscal year, it is  possible for us to go ahead and allocate the funding on this  side of the fiscal year, so in fiscal year 26. Therefore, it  would not be necessary to budget for it in the next  fiscal year. And so if we set aside those funds now, put  them in a multi-year fund, there will be no need to have  that $746,000 carrying over to fiscal year 27 as far as the  budget is concerned. It will still be in a fund, but it  wouldn't be necessary to come up with additional funds.  You're proposing a budget amendment in the current fiscal  year? Correct. Sheryl, if you would give them an example or  kind of give any more detail. I will, and as Elton  said, our actual for the past couple of months actually have  come in a little better, first a little better and then  significantly better this year, in this month, primarily  because I've said all along my projections were  conservative. So I included in the projections things that  possibly could have had payouts during this period. And  with the holding back on only doing essential expenditures as  well as these things that cause the additional money. As I  was listening to the discussion on these two  projects, as well as thinking through the other two  projects that have already passed this point, the best  thing I believe we should do, well, thinking about it, we've  already, I mean, when those, in my thinking, when those funds  that went before you to begin with, there was a  commitment. I mean, it's a commitment to honor the  contract. Now, we don't know whether the contract, we  don't have the information yet to know how much of the  contracts will get filled. But if we go ahead and  encumber those funds, you know, understanding that with  the understanding that there was a commitment, we should  go ahead, you know, it was the right thing to do, to  encumber those funds in this year, meaning fiscal  26, and keep them encumbered until the projects work  out, whichever way they work out. But that would be  holding those funds, and kind of holding them separately. So  we cannot, you know, like we look at the state  appropriation, and we look at that one separate every month,  maybe we should, if we agree to move forward with these  projects, hold those funds separately, so we can see it.  You know, this is what's there. And until, you know, the  projects work themselves out.  You're saying specifically, the Epstein building and the  Van Gorm building were previously approved, we stopped  this expenditure funds because of what we were. They were  obviously previously approved. And those are the monies,  which work out to be about $730, $740,000 into the  current year, and then just settle that out. It may be a  multiple year thing.  Yeah, but I think what Shirley's saying is all of  their approved projects. And so taking all four of the  major downtown incentive grants and making them into a  multi-year fund that is separate and apart from our  regular accounting. And then that way, when they go to  drawdowns and stuff, we can, from a management and finance  staff, we can have a better overview and oversight of each  project.  Okay. So is that an actionable item? I mean, we've approved  every single one of those things you've spoken to  previously, and we've had a lot of discussion and you've  held it wisely in terms of the expenditures. But is there  an actionable item here?  Well, I do think we would need consensus from council  to move forward and do it this way. I think we could  probably include it into our, I guess, adopted budget. But  from a finance standpoint, I'm not too familiar on the  process on what you would have to do as finance  director.  Can I get clarification? Is this more like an accrual  type thing? Since we're on cash basis, you're speaking  more from a business.  It is, but making sure that the money, you know, we, so  the contracts, I mean, they were orally, if nothing else,  they were orally approved. What I'm unclear about is whether  they all had a budget amendment. That's where that  is. But yes, so this is saying hold those funds that  have, for the four projects that have, at a minimum,  been approved by, you know, or orally, even if it's not  been encumbered yet. But go ahead and hold those funds,  hold them restricted so that when it is time to pay  them out, if that time comes, we'll have those funds. And  we won't have to be looking for them. We'll know  exactly where they are.  But from previous, this is nothing new from what you  said previously. So you're going to apply this not only to  the grants, but say to fire trucks and to other types of  things that we encumber, but they're going to be in the  future.  We will. For things like the fire truck, maybe other  apparatus, I'm not quite sure. I remember everything  that's out there. They would have, they would already have  an encumbrance right now because the PO was issued.  Okay.  And, and we'll, so we'll, we'll do that same thing, but  we'll continue to do that through the purchase order  process, where we'll hold encumbrances at the end of the  year to carry over because they already have committed.  Right.  But, but going back to these grants, to your, to your  point, if I understand correctly, the grants have  been approved, but you're saying maybe we didn't  approve the budget allocation.  Not for all of them.  Okay.  And that's what I had stated early on before even getting  to this point is that when I became manager, I noticed  that there were not actual funds tied to some of the  projects. You know, we approve a project, but didn't have  the funding allocated for it. And so that was what I  wanted to do from the get go before we even had a  discussion about the grants. But I wanted to make sure  that we have multi-year projects that we budget on a  multi-year for, for that.  Yes, sir.  Tom.  Just for documentation purposes, the Epstein contract  expired June 3rd. The Duke's contract, according to  what I see, expired April 29th. And I think we  need to have new contracts, if we can, executed  before June 30th.  And our state, I've talked to a couple of the, I  guess the property owners and if we were to enter  into a new thing, they would want that, that new  drawdown schedule to be approved. So I think they  were requesting the same thing if we are to move  forward with that.  Well, we can send money out if we don't have a  valley contract in place. And right now we've got  two that have expired.  For what you're saying, the Dukes, they sort of  slowed down their process because of the  conversation you had, because it seems that  they're probably down about 80 or 90% done.  Yeah, the last time that we had a conversation  and I verify this with our planning and inspections  departments, they are what I would consider  substantially done. And they just have the  issue that we discussed previously with the  egress. And so what they have requested of us,  the city, is if we would allow them to come  up with a temporary plan that doesn't slow them  down with regard to having another point of  entry or egress until the imminent domain  conversation is either, you know, continued or  taken care of.  So technically, they could have been getting  drawdowns before their contract ended.  Yeah, that's my understanding. I don't  want to speak directly for them, but I do  know that they have had some obstacles that  were not one of their own.  And I'm speaking because I'm not speaking  to one of them. Just looking at what you're  asking us to do is go ahead and approve that  amount for this fiscal year. And so when we  go into a new fiscal year, 27, we won't  necessarily have to do a tax increase  because we already have that money.  I would say no, we would not be recommending  additional tax increases associated with that.  Yeah, the current recommended tax increase  will stay the same because that's helping  us balance the budget, but there would be no  additional tax increase associated with  those projects.  Right. So if we would act upon this,  the recommendation of the science director,  then moving forward, we would just have to  do the necessary tax increase to help us stay  on target.  I can support that.  Councilman Walker.  Also, I know you were saying with the  grant piece, it will be covered in this  fiscal year, where it will be before we  pass the budget.  So say with the summer camp, you said we  cannot have it this summer.  So would that go into the 27 budget?  Yeah. So the summer camp piece is not  really a natural thing at this point.  It's more of an operational situation  because most of the kids have found other  places to go. And then hiring the  appropriate staff.  Those people who have typically worked our  camps have found other employment.  So we're kind of behind the eight ball  with regard to having it this fiscal  year. But if the budget is adopted,  then we will have the funds approved for  next fiscal year because we start hiring  and doing the programming for summer  camp like early in the winter.  And so those things are sent out to the  parents, the racer express.  We do the hiring process, which you're  talking about, you know, 50 or 60 people  total for all of the camps.  And so if this is approved, it would  be for next fiscal year.  So, you know, based on what Ms.  Fabi said about the recovery funds,  in addition to what  Jasmine Harris said about the grants,  at least two of the grants have  expired.  I do think if we're going to proceed  with it, we do have to, if nothing else,  prove  because if the money is expended,  we're going beyond what contractually  would be great to because if I'm  looking at it, June 3rd on the  Epstein building, the expiration  and then April 9th on the Duke's  properties, regardless of  regardless of why it's all  beyond.  You know, the last thing we want is  for  these grants, you know, if we go  through  audit of the grants for them to  find have a finding on that because  we're out of compliance  or agreement of the grant and that  thing. Is that what you're referring  to?  And I can say that I have sent  all of the agreements to the city's  attorney. He is reviewing those  and I think a combination of his  review as well as other  parties attorney, they'd be able to  present something for you.  Right. And just from  from my perspective,  these grants were approved before we  knew the issues that we had going  on.  And I've had a  I've always vacillated back and  forth on grants.  I say vacillated.  I've had, you know, I can see  where they're needed, but I can see  the concerns with them.  But where we are now,  my concern, I'm saying this  publicly, is if we didn't go  with the grants and approve the  grants, my fear  and is is the liability  that we would bring on to the  city from from  even whether whether it was  say we decided not to go with the  grant and then we were sued  just going through the legal process  alone, more than likely  would exceed the amount that we  would that we would have on the  grants. And so  you know, it's not just a simple  whether you agree with the grants  or not. It's not just a simple  whether you voted for him or not.  It's not simple whether  it's a very complex decision  that has to be made.  And and essentially  where we as a council, I think,  have to make the consideration is  what's in the best interest of the  city?  Looking at the potential  of a lawsuit, not saying one's  coming, but looking at  the potential and defending that  and the cost it would have  on this city.  And you could rack up fees pretty  quickly and it could be extended  for a long period of time,  multiple years.  That's exactly it was a staff  sentiment with regard to  making the official recommendation  on our behalf.  We explored the pros and cons of  every scenario with each  grant recipient and looked  at what we consider the city's  exposure.  And we felt that for  the amount of time and money,  staff's time and counsel's time,  quite frankly, including  the attorney, it'd be better  off to try to close these out  and then for, you know, there  have been no recommendations  for any further grants.  But we did feel like it was in  the city's best interest to at  least go through the years that  the city council has properly  approved.  Councilman Harris.  Yes.  Thank you, Mayor.  If we can dot RBI,  or Sir VT,  and do what  Ms.  Fabi says that we can do  in the budget in June  30th, if I'm all for it.  I'm going to play devil's  advocate for a minute.  The public just heard that we  got eight million dollars  more in cash than we thought.  I voted against the last two  budgets because they included  property taxes.  We heard people Monday  night talking about  the extra burdens  that would take place  if additional property tax  is assessed against our  citizens.  Devil's advocate.  Can we live with eight  million dollars more or less  seven hundred and forty six  thousand?  Can we live with  revised cash flow  without a property tax  increase?  I don't think that's a viable  option because if you think  about it, one penny  on our tax rate is about  five hundred seventy thousand.  This project to complete the  other two that was,  quote unquote, not included  from a financial standpoint, the  budget was about seven hundred.  So that would only be  one little roughly over a  penny and a half that we  would be saving.  So again,  I will remind everybody of  the audit presentation that we  just had at the last council  meeting. We are still  in the negative with regards  to our our general fund  fund balance  and across every fund,  even the utilities, there was  not a positive number.  So we need to do everything  that we can to keep the  revenue where it is.  So at the end of next fiscal  year, hopefully we'd be able to  put money back into the fund  balance. But at this point,  if we are to remove the entire  seven cent tax increase,  we would have to come up with an  additional four million dollars  worth of cuts.  Council Robertson, I recognize  Councilor Blackwell.  I love what Councilor Harris  just said as far as four  million, because if we have  eight million, it seems like  that we can use some of that  and not increase property  taxes, because I'm struggling  with that. We have a  two hundred and seventy  million dollar budget.  We're raising property taxes  on the people.  And we did this city condition  study that we paid for, and it  showed that  a lot of our neighborhoods are  struggling, especially Ward one,  two and three, and some of  four. But we have like  twenty seven percent of  the people living below  poverty. Last night, we just  had a community meeting,  neighborhood meeting,  and Councilman Blackwell  told me we had one of the  highest unemployment rates  in the state.  So here we are  growing up on people taxes.  And we have the older  oldest homes, especially  in these wars.  Like in this study,  it says sixty five percent  older homes were prior to  1970. And we know that  those homes are going to cause  more to heat and cool  for these people.  And they are already living  below the poverty level.  So the rates of property  taxes and to raise  30 percent on that, the gas  rates is going to hit  the people in my wars,  the people in Councilman  Blackwell wars, the people  in Councilman Knight's  wars, the hardest.  So whatever we can do  to not raise property  taxes. And then on top  of that, another thing  that was mentioned  in the meeting last night  is that Esco County  has one of the highest  property taxes  in the state.  Is that correct, Councilman  Blackwell? Esco County  has one of the highest  property taxes  raised in the state.  And then we're going to go  on top and have to pay  higher county  and higher city.  How will these people  survive?  And I'm looking at this  budget at 270 million  and some of the things  that I mentioned,  like demolition  and things like that  didn't get approved  for this budget,  cold enforcement.  These are the things  that affect our  constituents the most.  So, you know,  this is my first time  doing a budget.  I would like  for anyone in the body  or you to point me  to some of the things  that's going to benefit  all that's targeted  to people  that's the most vulnerable  people in this budget  that's going to help them.  Well, with all due respect,  Councilmember Robertson,  I don't think this is a platform  to go line by line.  Point for that,  we've had several meetings  where we discussed  the benefit as a whole  to the city  from the respect  of housing,  from utility bills  and things of that sort.  The city of Rocky Mount  has nothing to do  with Esco County's rates.  They set their own rates.  And what we've expressed  to you  in all of council  is that the seven cent  tax increase  solely goes  toward the general fund.  There are several things  that we had to do  in the development  of this budget  to get to where we are  to get to that point.  If you recall,  there are several  capital projects  that got deferred  or eliminated  that eventually  we're going to need  the L.G.C.  as well as the third  party auditor  Mauling and Jenkins  explained to you  just the other day  that we are in the negative  with regard to our total funds.  So if we don't increase  revenue and  decrease expense  throughout the year,  we will never close that gap.  And unfortunately,  for local governments,  that's the only way  that we can increase revenue.  You could increase revenue.  You can increase fees  and you can reduce expenses.  And then hopefully  throughout that process,  you'll have businesses  and people that move  to the city  and our tax base can increase.  But until that happens,  until we land  some major economic  development project,  we have to assume  that we can only operate  within the parameters  of what we currently have.  Now, how that impacts  individuals,  you know, that's a discussion  that we can have  in a community setting  or things of that sort.  But in order to pass this budget,  I am confident that  unfortunately,  a tax increase is needed.  If you look at other cities  that are not in  the financial crisis  that we're in across the state,  city of Wilmington.  Just yesterday,  we were in the L.G.C. meeting.  We heard that Greensboro,  who has way more cash  than we currently have  and is in a better  financial position,  they are increasing  their recommended  increase their tax rate  by nine cents.  And so across the board  and then not to for me  as an administrator,  to get political.  But there are talks  at the General Assembly  about preventing counties  from even having the authority  to do revals.  So this is not a Rocky Mount issue.  This is a state issue.  This is a result of some decisions  that have happened in the past.  And our job is to do our best  to correct that.  And you were one of the ones  that were more vocal early on  talking about decreasing this  and decreasing expenses.  And you can't continue to  add more things  without having revenue  tied to it.  And so, again,  whether the council as a whole  decides to adopt the tax  rate increase or not,  if you decrease the tax rate,  then we got to find  the associated amount  of expenditures to be reduced  because at the end of the day,  what gets approved has to be balanced.  Yeah, thank you for that.  Councilor Blackwell,  for a smash now.  Thank you.  We can come back to you.  You get a vote on this.  It's an all right guess.  Thank you.  I want to get back to  eight million dollars.  Help me with my logic.  Just correct me.  You gave us  a conservative estimate  on collections.  Correct.  But this is not new money.  So what we're saying is  our tax rate is  what it is right now.  The collection rate  would be applied to the tax rate  according to whatever  the valuation of all  the properties are.  So really, the eight million dollars  just says we got it faster  as opposed to not got it at all.  Is that correct or am I not correct?  It's more like we spin it slower.  And that's why I was focusing on  the commitment.  The commitment was made.  Correct.  If we end the year  without fulfilling the commitment  and that's because the projects  aren't far enough  along to that,  then we would have to recommit  in a future year.  If we go ahead and I mean,  we've orally with this by vote,  I believe that the projects  were committed,  even if they weren't encumbered.  So I'm all I'm saying is  that's the commitment  was either in this year  or prior year.  So the money we already have,  let's go ahead and commit that money  to these projects.  Time will tell whether  they all get paid out or not.  But the commitment will  we won't have to  have this discussion every year  when we've already made a commitment.  Correct.  And in my mind,  I support your  sound and  proposal to me as a sound,  sound logic.  I also want to say that  for every project  and of course, I can't comment online  all I see project.  But when we made those commitments,  whether we had the funds or not,  because we didn't know  what we were doing,  we had parties make  other commitments themselves.  And that's where you get tied up  in the legal room  because we did make commitments.  And I agree with Councilman  Doctridge that, you know,  there's a strong possibility  that you'd be dealing  or we would be dealing  with legal fees,  not to mention the fact  that all that aside,  we're getting properties  improved in Edgecombe County  and in Nash County.  We're getting tax based  generation.  We're getting utility  connections where there were none before.  And that's increasing  our bottom line, not just for today,  but for hopefully in perpetuity.  So it's improving  our fiscal position  and then you're getting more activity  in our downtown core,  which tends to attract  other activities.  Success breeds success.  And in a difficult time  in our city,  it's a good thing  for us to have success  anywhere we can find it.  And I think that  the wisdom of the management  of the flow of dollars is important  and also to tell  outside investors,  as well as our internal stakeholders,  that the city is serious  about growing our businesses  and our communities  and having assets.  So with Councilman  Robertson's concern,  this is not going to get fixed  in a year or two years.  It took 75 years  to get to where we are today.  We're not going to fix it  in two years.  We, for whatever reason,  we are where we are today  and we don't have to revisit  the pain of the past,  but we do have to fix  the mistakes of the past.  And I am encouraged  that we've been able to find a way  to keep our business moving,  strategically invest  and spend it slower,  but spend it wisely,  if that makes sense.  Tom, I do not, Councilman,  Councilman Thomas, I'm sorry.  I don't like passing on tax increases either.  I really do not.  However, one of the challenges  that we have now received  from our own people  inside our city,  saying they don't want us  to use our assets  that we generate  from their investments  on utilities  to fund the projects  and the city itself.  So now, even as we're rebuilding  our utility balances,  we will not have,  if the General Assembly passes  that bad bill.  It limits Rocky Mountain's ability  to strategically invest  in places that we've been able  to use those funds before.  And while we might be able  maybe offset future increases  as long as they don't come down to us,  we can't guarantee it.  And to not be able to raise revenue  to cover our costs  and fund our vision tax-wise,  I don't see how to do it without it.  And to me, this just gets us back to even.  Not like it launches us future forward.  Yeah, and I would say not even to even  because we were in the negative.  We were in the negative.  So this is helping us climb out of that hole.  And I'm glad that Sheryl phrased it as  spend it slow.  Because what I don't want the soundbite to be  that we have an additional $8 million  because that's not the case.  We still have the month of June to close out.  So while we made projections  about May and April,  our June projections could be off  and we could be down some funding.  So it's a month-to-month basis.  And I'm glad that we are monitoring like that  because I feel like it wasn't monitored  like that in the past.  And that's how we kind of got to where we are.  Like you said, not to read the past.  But I don't want the soundbite to be  that we have an additional $8 million  because that's not the case.  I think the appropriate term is phrase  is what Sheryl says that we're just,  our operational efficiency plan is working.  We are only spending money on critical assets.  And a lot of the things that we are accustomed to doing  we are not funding.  I would also remind council that there are things  that are for the employees that we have taken out.  Employees haven't had a merit increase  in over a year.  We have adjusted the longevity policy to a percentage  which that was voted on and approved based on funding.  Well, right now we don't have the funding.  So if there was anything that we had left over  at the end of the year or during the middle of the year  my recommendation would be to take care of the staff.  I would agree.  Yeah, I'll give you an amen on that preacher.  I'll recognize councilman Knight.  I just wanna say that we had linked the conversation  from Mr. Rogers' time about  how to balance the budget on revenue neutral.  And it was not a good idea.  And we just had multiple conversations about it.  And when Nashville County  done their reevaluation on properties,  property values went up,  but they did not lower their tax rates.  We did.  If we would have kept the tax rate as it was,  we would be getting the revenue on the  increase on the property value.  If most of them went up.  And I'm looking at a letter  not understanding what you're saying councilman Robinson  about wards one, two, and three,  but a letter went to the city manager sometime in April  with five or at least four signatures on it  asking to reduce human relations,  to reduce community and housing development,  to hood minimum provide the floor.  When you talk about wards one, two, three, and four  in progress and higher unemployment rate for housing,  these are the main two department that works  with inner city neighborhoods and neighborhood presidents.  So I was a little baffled about that.  But to get back to the point that you're saying,  I agree with what you brought us today  and what the finance director is saying.  Moving forward, we have to do a tax increase.  And when we look at it,  the citizens of Rocky Mountain pay both city  and county taxes.  And we can say, what do we get from the county?  Very minimal.  So I don't see people hacking out Nash County  Chambers or Edgecombe talking about their tax rate  and what they provide for their citizens.  Matter of fact, I'm quite sure a lot of those citizens  try to rock him out for our amenities  and on our roads and our streets  using our infrastructure for water and sewer  that lives outside the city limits.  So I just want to make it clear,  it's always been for downtown, inner city  and all of Rocky Mountain.  But it's just going back and looking at  better that was sent with you was cutting  a lot of those things that would help those communities.  Can we go back to the other screen?  So what I'd like to do is just to bring this to close.  We have deferred the spending on the Epstein building  and the May and Gorham building,  which accounts for about $740,000 or 730 and some change.  We're proposing that because we had already proved that  we're gonna dot all the I's across all the T's,  but we're gonna allocate the funding to that.  So we can remove this from this particular  budget discussion that we're having on the screen.  Correct. Right.  And you're gonna come back to us and you're gonna assure us  that we've got the I's crossed, the T's crossed  and all that.  Yeah, I along with it.  So I won't be doing the contract stuff,  that's what I'm trying to do.  I understand, I understand.  Well, you're in charge.  So we're, however you get that done in a reliable way.  And so then we have a budget here  that is now balanced with the items.  So is there, at least by show of hands,  majority or consensus that we can move forward  with the budget on this particular matter with this?  All in favor, just show your hands.  Okay, great.  So we're moving forward, this is the new budget.  You're gonna come to us.  I would propose that we have a committee  of the whole meeting before our next meeting  to do two things.  One, to confirm the I's have been dotted  and the T's have been crossed  and that we go forward on that.  And secondarily, to look at the impact  of Senate Bill 1076 and impact that it may have  on revenue to consider any adjustments  that may need to be made or may not need to be made.  But I feel like that would be a good time to do that.  We were gonna do some research on,  perspective funding of such things.  But anyway, we need more time to do that, I think.  Is that reasonable?  Yes, sir, Council Roberson  and I'll recognize Council Dawson.  As far as this bill, the Senate bill,  it doesn't touch as is written now,  the admin service charge, right?  The admin service charge.  Do we have confirmation of that?  Do we have confirmation of that?  Yes.  We do.  All right.  And according to this,  we reduced the cost allocation  that administration fees by 2.9,  almost 2.9 million, 2888.  I have an update on that.  We ran some more numbers.  I told you this was a work in progress  and right now we have it at above 6 million.  So you reduced it by 6 million?  Yes, that's correct.  So what's the current amount of admin fees?  I don't have the total right in front of me,  but I just know that Council Member Daugherty  asked us to continue to work on that  in the open setting and we have.  And what I state to the council  is that we hired outside a third party  to do a cost of service analysis.  And they, we told you previously  they should be done in just a few weeks.  And the staff, I don't know if you have an update today,  but we think it's within a matter of  the next few days and that will be completed.  But the work that we've done so far  reduces it at about six, a little over 6 million.  Council Member Daugherty.  I just want to respond to Council Member Robertson.  Based on my calculations of this budget  and I shared it with you,  in Bo's budget, the admin fees at 26,310,000  compared to the 25 was 3,912,000 change  and the adopted budget for 26 was 33,383,000.  And then the revised budget was 32,975.  So I would concur with city manager  that based on my calculations  it's been reduced by 6.7 million.  That's correct.  And while,  and I applaud the cost of service study  because I think it's needed and you're not finished.  So I'll, but I just wanted to address that.  I was just gonna ask you,  is that across all funds?  Cause I thought that was just the enterprise funds.  I'm looking at mayor.  I mean, I can go through them line by line.  Mayor and,  it's different.  Well, let me put it to you this way.  Whenever you reduce the admin service fee,  then you have to plug the hole with the general fund.  And so there is no way to plug that hole  outside of reducing the spenders even further  or increase the taxes.  That's your only options.  And you just recommended not doing anything with the taxes  but then also eliminating the administrative fee  even further, it's just not possible.  Well, not eliminated,  but just putting it towards some of these priorities  in the hardest hit wars.  Because I think you said like yesterday,  Queensborough, they raised nine cents, right?  And one of the things that the LGC  was finding back to them was,  y'all have a spending problem, right?  That y'all need to reduce your expenditures  and your spending.  That's correct.  And I think one of the things they said to us  is that we had a spending problem,  so we're not expenditures.  So I know that you reduced it  and I sent you a number of questions,  but I know in this budget,  I think you reduced it maybe like 4.5 million  in wages and benefits and different things like that.  The revised budget that we currently have  and the budget that is currently presented to you  has a savings of over 16, oh, there it is, 16 million.  16 million.  Yes, and that's based off of the revised budget  was reduced from what we initially,  what council initially adopted at the beginning of the year.  So what we have tried our best to do  to explain to all of council and to the public at times  is this is not a situation  that we could cut ourselves out of.  If you wanna provide certain services,  you have to have staff and equipment to do those things.  This is a situation where we have to do both end.  We cut and increase revenues and fees  where possible and practical.  That's an example across all funds  what we have done thus far.  And we did receive some of the questions that you asked.  Feel free to ask them now so the public can hear.  I've got councilman Blackwell like to speak,  but I also wanna just confirm, we'll come back,  but I wanna confirm too  that you're doing a third party study  on the administrative fees  and looking at the composition of that  and how that'll be allocated  and that's forthcoming in 90 days or so.  So this conversation is not done,  but I do appreciate the efforts you've made.  I'll recognize councilman.  I was just responding to his, I haven't spoken.  Okay, I'm sorry.  I was just responding.  All right, fine, I'll recognize you  and then councilman Blackwell.  I wanna go back to bill 1076.  And we hear there's confirmation  that it doesn't impact admin service fees and so forth,  but there's talk about restricting what we can use.  We can argue the merits of that  whatever way we want to,  but the reality is if whatever comes out of the house  and whatever the house and senate agree to  or don't agree to,  my concern as this body  is if they're,  what happens if they say we can't use something  that we're using  and the only time that we can impact  certain fees and taxes is now.  So what is our legislature gonna do?  Gotta be careful with my words here.  What are they gonna do  when they impact this budget  of limiting what we can and can't do?  And again, I've got my feelings on  how things have been done on admin service fees.  I think I've made it well known on that,  but the reality is it's part of this budget.  Reality is if anything,  and I hear that it's not part of the senate bill,  but the house bill, the house hadn't done anything.  So what can we do?  How do we handle this?  Is the legislature gonna come back  and say we can't do something?  And then what do we do?  Do we have layoffs?  Do we have huge fee increases  that I think we can do just about any time?  Don't recommend that,  but I think it's,  the legislature's playing with fire here  because quite frankly, if it impacts,  can we put a contingency on there  of a tax increase based on the outcomes of 1076  and call it the property tax increase  of the legislature of 1076  because they're limiting what we can and can't do?  Because right now they're dictating,  and they ultimately have the power.  We recognize that.  They have the fiat capacity.  And I recognize that,  but the outcomes are real,  and they've got to recognize that  and take responsibility over that.  And I've told Senator Barnes that.  And we can debate whatever you want to,  but the reality, I'm just concerned,  if we go pass a budget  and then they come up in August  and pass whatever they pass,  and it has an adverse impact on our budget,  what in the world do we do?  And how do we handle that?  Can we put a contingency?  Is it legal to put a contingency in there?  We have calls with...  Well, in fact, that's exactly why I was proposing  that we do a Committee of the Whole on June 22nd  to discuss that issue.  And it's funny you bring that up.  I think Manager Daniels is researching  that particular part right now.  I don't know that you have an answer to.  No, we don't.  That's what I would say.  We have calls in now from outside council  trying to figure out what our options are.  If that does occur,  I will state that at the local government commission  meeting yesterday,  one of the commissioners asked that very question.  And that particular commissioner also wonder  why Rocky Mountain was, quote unquote,  targeted, that was stated.  Well, I wanna know.  I wanna know.  To me, it seems kind of reckless.  We've made mistakes, there's no doubt.  We've had issues, there's no doubt.  I think we all recognize that.  But I think it's reckless of what's being done  in Raleigh without recognizing the impacts  it's gonna have on the citizens of Rocky Mountain.  And frankly, both counties.  I'm sorry, it's just eating at me  and it's not responsible.  And I wanna make it clear.  And if the paper wants to print that,  if it goes on social media, fine.  But I would love for the legislature  to recognize that all they're doing  is talking about limiting what we can  and cannot do and not providing any solution  to whatever cuts they may be putting out there.  And I think that's absolutely reckless.  Councilor Blackwell,  then I'll recognize Councilor Harris.  Okay, he's gonna pass to me.  I'm sorry, no, I thought you were leaving.  No, I wanna say this.  I just wanna say I'm not trying  to be disrespectful to anybody.  We have our own opinion.  A lot of that stuff was created around this table.  And some of us lobbied Lisa Barnes to create that deal.  A lot of us feel concerned citizens  and whoever citizens and the haters and everything  about this utility stuff, admin fees and all that.  So the chickens have come on the roost and they're roosted.  And what you just said,  if you take something out,  you got to plug it in somewhere else.  We only got two ways to do it, taxes and fees.  Unless you gonna have our services very minimum,  like some of these smaller towns  that don't offer a lot of services.  Parks and Rec, garbage collection, public works,  you can be basically Mayberry.  So if you wanna act like a Raleigh or Greenville  or a step up from Wilson,  you got to put on your big boy pants  and that's what they're doing  because everything has gone up  according to what's going on with the president  and what's going on with the economy.  But I'm just saying a lot of this stuff,  that debacle that we kept talking about  and hopefully that utility audit would be released soon  was created around this table  and was fueled by some of us around this table,  I believe.  And so now we got to deal with it.  So when it passed it or if it passed,  then we deal with it.  Come this far by faith.  Y'all have to.  Yes, Blackwell.  I'm gonna say amen to that.  All right.  That'll be, I'll say the rest of my comments,  which are many and varied against the very bad bill  that was comprised to hurt Rocky Mountain.  Thank you.  Councilman Harrison.  I'm gonna make it short and sweet.  The legislature has not balanced  this budget from last year  and is doubtful that they're gonna balance  their new budget.  But yet they're telling us how to do our budget  and whatever ramifications that's gonna cause  potential harm, they wanna throw up their hands  and say it is your problem.  But the legislature has never balanced  the budget from last year's.  Am I correct or wrong?  We're the only state in the nation.  We're the only state in the nation.  So they're telling us what to do  when they can't complete what they're supposed to.  That's all I'll say.  Councilperson Roberts.  I'll say, I think if it came from around this table,  it came from the people, the people of the city.  And last time I heard it again at the meeting,  people feel like it's taxation without representation.  And the people, we can't neglect  and the people can't feel like they're not heard  and they're not seen because it will get to Raleigh  and it will get further than Raleigh.  If the people, even if you're doing things  in the best interest and we're not communicating  and the people don't feel like they're in this budget,  like when I asked you earlier,  the people's award one, two, and three  is gonna pay higher taxes.  And you said that we went over before,  what's in this budget that's targeted to them?  Because they're gonna be champion,  whoever comes to save them  because it feels like we're not listening,  we're not saving them  because we're raising their utilities  and they don't see anything in this budget for them.  So when I go speak to my constituents,  what can I tell them in $270 million  that we have set aside this that's gonna help you?  And if we can't do that,  then they're gonna go to Lisa Barnes  and anybody else in looking for relief  and looking to be heard.  So I don't think it came from around the table,  it came from our city  and so like they've been neglected  for years and years and years.  One lady in this study right here,  she said for 40 years,  she said the residents who participated in the study,  they said they tied up plans  and wanted to see some action.  One resident said,  I haven't seen any change in my neighborhood in 40 years.  So these are the people  that millions of dollars of budget after budget  and they're getting higher utility bills  and higher taxes  and haven't even been seen that they're represented.  An elder lady told me last night,  we're just getting tax and tax and tax  and what do we get our services cut?  So of course they're upset and mad  and they're responding to that service cut.  I think we're deviating a little bit.  I'm just curious,  are you in favor of Senate Bill 1076?  I'm not in favor.  And then how do you think-  I'm saying the people are in favor of it.  Well, the other question I have is,  we've gone through all these meetings  and so this is the whole point  of what we're adding to it,  what we're gonna take on to the next level  and how we're gonna fund it.  I hear you.  There is nobody around this table  who wants to increase taxes ever  or utilities for that matter.  We all pay them.  So I'm at greater levels than others.  So unless we have anything else  that's gonna tie to this balanced budget today,  I think that we're done.  Anybody have anything that we'll talk about that?  Yes, Councilman Harris.  Just a reminder, Councilor Robinson,  you mentioned constituents in Ward 1, 2, and 3  would be paying higher taxes.  Also constituents in 4, 5, 6, and 7  would be paying increased taxes too.  So keep in mind, you represent Ward 3,  but you also represent the whole city.  Exactly.  You got to talk about the whole city.  Gotcha, and that's what I said.  In Ashcoe County, that Ashcoe County taxes  are the highest in the state.  So in distance of paying this tax,  my ward, which is living at 27% below poverty rate,  they're gonna be paying those county taxes  and they live in older houses  that they won't be paying higher utilities.  My point's been made.  My point's been made.  I wanna add something.  Councilman Blackwell, I recognize you  and then we're going to adjourn.  So if we're going to advocate  for how the county spends its money,  then maybe that's what we need to do.  The county?  The county, because if they got a 99% tax rate,  why don't we ask them,  what are you spending in Rocky Mount for housing?  I agree.  If our citizens want relief,  it's not just from Rocky Mount.  And for anyone who says that neighborhoods  and wards one, two, three, and four have not changed,  then perhaps we need to make a laundry list  of all that has been done in any ward, any community.  Because I can tell you, much has changed.  And I documented that last night.  And maybe I didn't,  wasn't that the same way you were,  but I didn't hear, I heard questions.  But when I communicated how we got to where we got to,  I didn't hear pushback.  What I heard was how we're going to make it.  Now, Rocky Mount is part of North Carolina,  and North Carolina is part of United States of America,  and United States of America is part of the entire globe.  And it's amazing to me how people in our city  think that we're not impacted by global politics.  It's not just what we do in a utility bill.  It's not just what we do in a tax increase.  It's our entire economy.  And we got to figure all of it out.  And at the same time,  this council is responsible for managing our money.  We're not responsible for what Nash County does,  or Edgecombe County does.  And we doggone sure don't give them enough grief  about what is coming back into our city.  And I would love to see some advocacy  around investment into Rocky Mount,  since Rocky Mount drives economies  of both Nash and Edgecombe counties.  And so all I would say for us is that this is what we got.  I think that the staff has done an amazing job.  And I think the council has pulled together  for most of us in the same direction.  We have listened to our public  as much as we possibly could  to find a medium place that fits  for where we must go to and grow to.  The plans have been submitted  to the local government commission.  And at every level, every measure,  everything they've asked us to do,  we've done it and we've done it better  than what they even asked.  So this whole myth about irresponsibility  for this council and this administration  is not accurate.  This entire staff and our citizens  are doing all we can do.  I do not, I accept, receive and understand  every perspective that's been brought to us  and will continue to listen until my term is ended.  But for today and for this budget year,  I thank you to our city manager and our team  that has pulled together a solid and a sound budget  we gotta do what we gotta do  and we're gonna get better.  And then for business development coming forward, future,  I hope we can land some good opportunities  so that we can relieve the pressure.  So I'm looking forward to it.  Thank you, Mr. Mayor.  And I'm asking for adjournment.  Well, hang on a second.  Mr. Manager, thank you so much  for what you and your team have done.  This has been a yeoman's job,  starting with the recognition  that we were frankly running out of money, deferring.  Cheryl, thank you for the extra hours, your team,  all that you've done to get us to this place.  I think everybody recognizes  it's an imperfect budget at best  for all of us, it always will be.  But what a yeoman's job has been completed  to at least get us into a balance that we have options.  We didn't have options five months ago,  six months ago.  I appreciate the work that's going forward  and I wanna thank everybody on council  for all that you've done to get us to this place.  I mean, budget season is never fun.  But with that, I just feel like we need to adjourn the meeting.  Thank you.  Thank you.