 Thank you very much, it's all good.  With that, I think we had two purposes, if I recall, for this particular meeting.  One was to just review the revenues as related to the Senate Bill 1076.  I believe you've had some conversation with folks who may want to report that,  but it feels like it's fairly stable.  And then secondarily, some economic development opportunities that we need to  get a closed session for.  And so with that, can I turn it over to you, Mr.  Manager?  We've reviewed the legislation as it currently stands.  And while the fiscal year 27 budget does not have the transfers in it  that 1076 addresses, we do feel like it could hinder our ability to plan for the  future, not knowing exactly what would get adopted and knowing that Rocky  Mount would be the only municipality outside of, I think, Lewisburg that it  would impact.  And the city has not done, to my knowledge, anything outside of the  current law.  And so if we are to not have that flexibility in the future, it could  potentially mean a substantial tax increase because the revenue would have  to come from some place.  I would like for Sheryl to add or take away from that statement.  I don't really have anything to add.  You know, just the main thing is the cost allocation, how we decreased the  amount of that this year in fiscal 27.  But that is the unknown to me in reading legislation because it says we  can have cost allocation.  But, you know, what does that mean?  Got it.  But I guess then really the recommendation is that we feel  comfortable or you feel comfortable that if 1076 passes as written, the  current budget won't require any additional revenue considerations, but  maybe next year maybe a different story.  That is correct.  As it is now, the fiscal year 27 does not have any additional  transfers outside of our cost allocation.  In other words, the administrator fees.  But outside of the next fiscal year, it is unknown and it has the  potential to be very drastic with regard to where the additional  funding would need to come from.  Okay.  Any questions?  Yes, sir.  Councilman Doldridge, then Councilman Harris.  Do we know exactly, I've read the bill, do we know exactly,  talk about transfers and we're talking about administrative service  charges. Do we know exactly, Ms.  Fabi, you were mentioning, depending on which way it goes or it's  unclear, do we have any, I guess I might be looking at the attorney.  Do we have any clarity on that?  What is exactly targeting?  Is it transfers?  Is it admin fees?  Is it both?  And to your point, we'll go ahead and start.  Yes, so I would agree with Cheryl's conclusion that there is some open  question.  It seems primarily focused on, you know, the law already restricts  our ability to transfer straight out of it.  You know, to the extent it has an impact, it's probably dealing  with the admin fees and taking kind of a broader view, not necessarily  drawing the distinction that the current statute draws between pure  transfers that are return on investment, as the statute is currently  worded, and just looking at generally transferring away from the  utility sort of more broadly.  You know, I think the key, at least at this point, is this  element is that, you know, we're confident based on what we understand  that language to mean right now, that the current budget the council  will vote on tonight will be fine.  It's just kind of as that language gets finalized, of course, it's  not wall currently.  There's always the possibility of additional changes.  It's just the impact on how the city deals with the final language  could come down the road.  But as it currently stands today, as Elvin said, we think we're  comfortable with, you know, what the current state of the bill seems  to be regulating.  And that's my interpretation as well.  But to your point, if it changes, this legislation hasn't passed and  it included some of those fees or all the fees, what do we do?  When we have a budget and we're voting on tonight, we have to have  a budget in place by July 1.  What do we do?  Yep.  So that's, let's assume for a second, the bill changes pretty  clearly in a way that creates a problem with this fiscal year.  You know, when council adopts the budget as it has to by July 1,  you know, we can't go back and adjust the tax rate for the  coming year.  We don't get a second shot at that.  And so then it'll be, you know, Elton and his team looking at those  sources of revenue to the extent they're needed to cover any additional  restrictions that could be added to 1076.  And, you know, the ability to do that is relatively limited.  I think we saw some of that when the current financial situation first  came into view where there was a bit of scrambling about what revenue  sources can be adjusted now, but primarily it's on the cost side.  If there is a material change to 1076, we'd be essentially in that  same position.  Yep.  Use the word materially.  There's just so many unknowns.  And that's why in the last meeting, Mr.  Mayor, I used the word, somebody used the word reckless.  I'm not sure if I did or not, but I am now.  With it being at this late hour, not knowing what's in front of us and what  we have to do statutorily by law for the state of North Carolina, yet we  have the legislatures who technically have all the powers that we have in  this body right here is derived from the state legislation.  We recognize that.  And if it changes materially, as Mr.  Attorney just stated, they're going to have to, along with anything that  they bring, they need to bring a solution if they're going to cause  it, because I'd hate to think what we have to do, and I think it  could devastate not only Rocky Mountain, but this region.  And do I, do I have concern with our admin service fees?  Yes, I've had concerns since before I became a city council.  Um, but give credit where credit's due to you and your team this year  have addressed admin service fees.  And I think got your word that admin service fees are going  to be addressed moving forward.  Um, and, and also in this public setting, I also want to say how  disappointed I am to learn that, that Nashville, the town of Nashville sent  a letter to legislatures essentially asking for this, and I'll know exactly  what the letter said, because I don't have a, have you had a copy of that  letter?  I have not.  Has anybody for the city of Rocky Mountain seen a copy of that letter?  It's the first I've heard of it.  It was in their newspaper.  It was in the Nashville graphic.  It stated the letter was sent to the legislatures, but if that's the  case, um, and it was also the case stated by their mayor pro tem that  they wanted something to the effect of not be beholden to the city of  Rocky Mountain when it came to water in wastewater.  I think it's within our ability that we can do that.  Make that happen.  That's what they want.  But, um, I know I'm making a long statement, but I'm not happy about this.  I think it's a disservice to the city of Rocky Mountain.  When I say city of Rocky Mountain, I'm talking about every citizen, every  business, the hospital, and the region.  I think it's extremely unfortunate.  And I think it's unfortunate that we have legislatures that are not even  elected by the citizens in this area, specifically in Wilson, are part of this.  And, um, if it happens, essentially nothing we can do, but deal with the  consequences and, um, we just have to do what we've got to do.  Thank you, councilman.  Councilman Harris.  Uh, thank you, mayor.  Uh, manager Daniels, a couple of questions.  Refresh my memory and those in the public right now, statutorily.  Is it 3% that we could pass on?  Is that the correct percentage rate?  There, there are two percentage rates.  I think it's 3% and 5% depending on gross receipts and, uh,  I think some type of investment.  Uh, the key is that I'd like to remind council is that, uh, while the  city has made those transfers in the past, back in December, when we, uh,  revised our fiscal year 26 budget, we stopped that process.  So the things that this new legislation is trying to address the city of  Rocky Mount has already done.  So it's really unnecessary.  It just prohibits us from having flexibility in the future.  Should the case come up that we need to make those  funds and, uh, fund transfer.  Uh, next question, revenues from our enterprise funds.  This bill passes like it is.  Can we continue to use those funds to help payment of infrastructure  related to gas, electric, water, sewer, water runoff?  Uh, yes, we would.  We'd be able to use, uh, the funds, uh, that come from each enterprise  fund for direct impact for any type of infrastructure improvements within  those different departments.  But we need to make major repairs to a building or some unforeseen event.  Those going to have to come from the general fund.  Is that correct?  That's correct.  If it, if the building is associated with the general fund, then yes,  those funds would have to come from the general fund.  If those, the building is related to one of the utility funds and those  funds would have to come up from that specific utility.  The other thing I'd like to remind you all is not just the ability to transfer,  but sometimes throughout the year, you have to have inter-fund transfer  amongst the utility funds.  And we've done that for a couple of the projects that we have ongoing  in the water department.  If this is not allowed, we would not be able to do that.  Uh, which puts us in a very difficult position to complete major projects.  Well, I certainly am against the bill presently read.  I believe the timing is nothing but political.  I just wish the representatives had come to have a meeting with the  manager and council to give us some sort of a heads up negotiation  always works at the end.  But I just wanted to say that Nash County residents who are paying for  electric service, gas, and water to the city of Rocky Mount, the other  residents of Nash County paying for such services to Duke or to whoever,  their rates are higher.  Are they not?  Uh, I don't have Bradley in here, but I'm pretty sure we  are very competitive in that Lord.  That's right.  So to me, why didn't she go out to do power?  We know it's all but politics and the timing is just off.  Absolutely awful.  But I feel confident at the end of the day, we will find a way, but  people need to know that we are limited in how we produce future  revenue.  We can't rely on property or sales tax increases to a significant amount.  Vehicle fees to a significant amount.  Permit fees to a significant amount.  The only source will be property tax.  Is that correct?  Yeah, that's correct.  Either raising the property taxes or having very, uh, I would use  the attorney's word material cuts within our ongoing budget and that  means sometimes people, people and deferred maintenance, this budget  this year has some capital projects included in it, but a lot of those  capital projects that we had or some of the equipment that we need, we  deferred it for future years.  If we don't have this funding available for us, we're going to  either defer that even longer.  And that's something that I just personally, I don't think that  we would be able to do.  I do know that you all have mentioned Nashville and Nashville County,  but I do think that also will support the funding that we need.  But I do think that also Wilson was mentioned, uh, in this legislation  or they are helped support in this legislation, the representative from  that area, uh, I do know that of the close to 30,000, uh, customers  that we have on the electric, only nine of those are in Wilson County.  And of that nine, only seven are residential.  So out of 30,000, you're only talking about seven individuals.  Thank you.  Anyone else?  All right.  Well, then I'll need a motion to go into closed session for economic development.  So moved.  Second.  All in favor.  All right.  We're now in closed session.