 Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Here we go.  Thank you.  Now, 403, I would like to call the Rocky Mount City Council Committee to hold a meeting to order.  First off, I would like to welcome all citizens and guests to the meeting.  This council meeting is designed as a work session for council members to receive, review, and discuss information prepared by staff.  Only staff and council members are allowed to speak during this meeting without special permission.  I would like to remind citizens that there will be an opportunity to speak in public comment portion of the regular city council meeting.  At this time, I will ask the city manager to proceed with the business.  Thank you, Mr. Mayor.  Good afternoon, everyone.  We have three items that will be in open session today, starting with a presentation from the Rocky Mount Area Youth Council.  Then we have a presentation from Martin and Jenkins, and then we'll wrap up with a presentation from our own staff with regard to our insurance renewal.  So with that being said, we'll start off with, I think, the president of the Rocky Mount Youth Council, Archer.  Yep.  First, I'd like to thank everyone for allowing us a couple of minutes.  Archie, in relation to the City, be here today.  We have an outstanding, outgoing president of the Rocky Mount Area Youth Council.  She's going to provide a presentation of the activities that the Youth Council has been involved in over the last 12 months.  So I would introduce to you, senior outgoing president, Mr. Sinead Shahada, outgoing president of the Rocky Mount Area Youth Council.  Sure.  Good afternoon, Mayor, city council members, city manager, and others.  My name is Sinead Shahada, and I'm the president of the Rocky Mount Area Youth Council, and I've been a proud member for the past four years.  Before we get started, I would like to, on behalf of Ms. Felisa Hunter and all of my members, thank you for allowing us the opportunity to make, to present our 2025-2026 year end report.  In my report, I will be highlighting the accomplishments, service learning projects, and leadership development activities throughout the fiscal year.  The Rocky Mount Area Youth Council is a state-chartered organization comprised of area high school students from both Nash and Edgecombe counties.  Our mission is to serve, listen to, and represent local youth while symbolizing leadership, civic engagement, and community service.  This year, we currently have 36 participating members.  During this year, our members have actively participated in several state youth council leadership conferences.  The Leadership Day conference helped prepare our officers for our upcoming meetings, projects, and other leadership responsibilities while allowing youth councils to exchange ideas and strategies during our brainstorm recessions.  Our members also attended our mini-grant conference, which allows youth councils to learn about grant opportunities to support community service initiatives.  Through the annual funding from the North Carolina Youth Endowment Fund, the Youth Advisory Council awards grants averaging $500 to support youth initiatives.  We are especially proud that Rocky Mount has hosted the mini-grant conference for over 15 years.  Our members also participated in the Team Building and Leadership Conference.  In that conference, they teach youth essential skills, cooperation, commitment, and teamwork.  The team building programs show how groups function and how individuals contribute to group success.  Next slide.  Through the continued support from the City of Rocky Mount, our members are also able to participate in our National League of Cities conferences.  The NFC City Summit provides young leaders from across the nation with educational and mentoring experiences that can be applied within our own community.  Some places that the Rocky Mount Area Youth Council has traveled to include Tampa, Florida, Atlanta, Georgia, and many others on my slide.  Community service still remains one of our core values in the Rocky Mount Area Youth Council.  We've assisted with the Rocky Mount Senior Center at its annual senior Christmas event at the R.C. McCarter Center.  We've also supported the Martin Luther King Jr. Commission during the Unity Breakfast and the Oratorical Competition.  We've also volunteered with the Down East Partnership for Children during the 2025 Little Farmers Festival,  where our members assisted with supervising informational and gaming areas for children and families.  The Rocky Mount Area Youth Council has elevated its commitment to service and recognition by presenting service cords to qualifying graduating seniors,  and we are proud to share that the Rocky Mount Area Youth Council is the only second youth council in the state to implement and present service cords  to recognize outstanding community service and volunteer dedication.  These cords symbolize the countless hours our seniors have devoted to serving their schools, community, and city while demonstrating leadership, compassion, and civic responsibility.  The City of Rocky Mountain Human Relations Department recently hosted its 2025-2026 End of Year Dinner  to recognize our 12 graduating seniors and celebrate the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council's volunteer service and accomplishments throughout the year.  Through the North Carolina Department of Youth Advocacy and Involvement Office, we've been awarded a grant for our Hearts in Action Community Food Drive.  This initiative supported students and families during the holiday season by collecting non-perishable food items,  and they were distributed to Williford, D.S. Johnson, and Baskerville Elementary Schools.  We've also adopted a section of Main Street through the Keep America Beautiful program,  and we participated in community cleanup efforts approximately three or four times during the fiscal year.  Another exciting accomplishment was hosting our first ever LinkedIn Launchpad Workshop for youth throughout the surrounding area.  This hands-on, peer-driven workshop was designed to help participants strengthen their LinkedIn profile  and learn to professionally showcase their leadership experiences, skills, community involvement, and accomplishments online.  The Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council was also honored to receive recognition for our service efforts.  The Rocky Mountain Senior Center recognized us with our Volunteer of the Year Award for Outstanding Service, Dedication, and Commitment to the Senior Community.  The Mountain Zion First Baptist Church recognized us with the Excellence in Youth Leadership Award for Outstanding Contributions and Service to the Community.  Another way to measure our impact of the Youth Council is through service hours.  This year, our members have contributed to approximately 1,200 volunteer hours through meetings, conferences, and community service.  The hours represent the dedications our members have to serve others, to develop their leadership skills, and to strengthen our community.  We are very proud of the time and effort they invest in the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council, especially this year.  With the end of my presentation, I would like to thank the Mayor, the City Council Members, the City Manager, the Human Relations Department,  and Felisa Hunter, our community partners, parents, and supporters for their investment towards the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council.  Your support provides our youth to grow as leaders and to strengthen our community forevermore.  On behalf of the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council, thank you for your time and continued support.  Thank you for that. And I want to, I don't know, that make me smile, my soul smile, because it's a lot of great, great people in this city.  So let the Council and the Mayor and the City Manager know where you're going to school next after this.  Well, I will be going to Fayetteville State University and I'll be majoring in political science.  So we'll see you come back. We'll see you come back. Congratulations to you. And thank you.  The only thing that I will add to that is that just a couple of weeks ago, they had the graduation of all the seniors.  And out of all the seniors, I think we had over 10 or 15 people who were not only going to college, but also received scholarships on the way.  So congratulations to your team and to everyone with the Youth Council.  Next, we have a presentation from Maldon and Jenkins.  And you should have received slides over the weekend.  And so after the presentation, if you have questions, that'll be appropriate time to ask.  We want her to get through Ms. Leann to get through the presentation before we start.  So my name is Leann Bagasala. I'm an audit partner at Maldon and Jenkins.  About two months ago, you heard from Tim Lyons.  He is the audit engagement partner for the city of Rocky Mountain.  He is out of the country today.  And so the local government commission did ask us to present some additional information for the final presentation of the audit.  So what you were presented with two months ago was our draft information that we had available.  And so the presentation that you have before you is the same exact presentation from last year, but there are a couple of edits to it.  So I'm not going to hone in on some of the pages that are very similar to what you were presented two months ago.  I'm just going to tell you what the changes were.  So again, this is presenting your final results.  But the big thing that the local government commission and required by state statute is that we present the financial performance indicators of concern to city council.  When we submit your audit to the state, they have what's called a data input form.  And that data input form, the result of it is financial performance indicators of concern.  So your job now is to for us to present this information within 45 days of issuing your audit.  And then the city council and majority of city council members are going to have to sign a response to the local government commission that indicates how you're going to address these indicators.  And some of them are repeat from last year.  So some of them are going to be a work in progress over multiple years.  So on the next page, we have this is information about the purpose of our presentation.  I think we've already kind of gone through this and there's been no changes to this.  That's your previous version.  The next slide tells you who Mottis and Jenkins is and that has not changed in two months.  So we're going to skip through that as well as the next slide.  This is some of the additional services that we can provide as of auditors.  The next page that we do have is your independent audit report.  So when Tim presented two months ago, this was a draft and draft form.  Your opinions did not change in that you still receive unmodified opinions for your financial audit, which is the beginning opinion in your financial statements.  The only thing that we did add to your financial statements that are presented, I think you all have bound copy, is that we added an emphasis of a matter paragraph.  And that basically says that the city is undergoing financial stress as disclosed in note 21.  And the conditions are indicative of a significant financial stress due to declining financial performance and ongoing challenges.  So we were just drawing attention to where further information was disclosed in the footnotes.  There was nothing that's actually changed.  It's just that we put that in there to draw emphasis.  The next slide kind of goes through what is in your financial statements, and that has not changed.  And you have the next slide.  This is the certification that the city will try to get for this coming up here.  From an overview from the financial statements perspective, we did present to you draft information in the financial statements.  There have been very small changes to it from a fund level.  So I'm going to kind of skim through and kind of let you know if there was any changes that you should be aware of.  You go to the next page.  The general fund, the overall revenues and expenditures didn't change in the general fund.  There were a little bit of changes from a transfer perspective, but nothing that's significant to note.  On the next page, your net change in fund balance did change by $180,000.  And so it actually looks better now than it did.  So small change there.  There was just a late entry that came through that we needed to post to your financial statements.  In reviewing this slide, there was a change to your fund balance for the general fund by that same $180,000-ish.  From an enterprise perspective, there are three graphs that you have for the enterprise funds.  There are no significant changes to the change in net positions.  The unrestricted net position or the operating cash flow to any of the funds but the gas fund,  there were a couple entries that still needed to be posted to the gas fund.  So those numbers have changed slightly from what was previously presented.  And then if you'll continue on to the next page.  These are your footnote disclosures.  And we didn't change any of your footnote disclosures significantly except for the capital assets.  So between the presentation previously provided and your issuance,  there were changes to capital assets where the city brought on the Rocky Mount Event Center.  And so there were some changes to your capital asset footnote, which is note five.  And then if you continue on after page note 19 at the bottom, we did add note 20 and 21.  We did a little bit of changes in that from your previous draft, which is note on the next slide.  It's note page 20 and 21.  There's a little bit of updated numbers in those related to your county changes and error corrections.  And then from a note 21 perspective, we have footnote disclosures.  And those two footnotes were in your previous version.  It's just that in this PowerPoint slide, they were in our PDF.  They were not listed as separate footnotes, but they are within them.  There were not significant changes in those except for there was a restatement that we'll talk about in a page coming up.  So from a compliance perspective, when we presented to you two months ago,  we gave you a draft of what we thought the yellow book report and the single audit reports would say.  We continue to have the same opinion.  We had an unmodified opinion, but there were findings.  So no changes to this other than I changed some of the tips and the words to say we did issue an opinion.  From a required communication standpoint, there are no changes to any of our required communication  that is we have the same information related to the city's accounting policies, their estimates, their disclosures.  There were no disagreements with management.  We drew the same conclusions.  We had a lot of audit adjustments that we previously told you about.  And we still maintain our independence as your external auditor.  So now we are on page 21.  That's right here.  So two months ago, we're on the bottom of page 21.  We did present three material weaknesses, which are number one, your financial condition.  Number two, your capital assets, leases and related balances.  And number three, your accounting accounts payable and accrued payables.  Those footnote disclosures did not change.  The findings did not change.  But we did add a number four since the previous version that you saw.  This is related to the Rocky Mount Public Facilities Corporation Fund.  There is a restatement of $16.7 million.  And this is a very technical matter.  But essentially, when recording the activity between the Rocky Mount Public Facilities Corporation and the general fund,  there was a receivable book that basically was never going to actually be paid in cash.  And if you're applying government accounting standards at a fund level, we would have never booked that.  So there was a restatement for that because that transaction finished during the year.  And what ultimately happened was the general fund never received cash for that, but they received capital assets.  And from a government perspective, you wouldn't record that at the fund level.  You would just take on those assets at the government-wide level.  So that's why I mentioned that there was a restatement in the capital asset footnote  because the city added all of those capital assets for the Rocky Mount Event Center.  And that kind of satisfied the receivable from that standpoint.  So the only way to record that is to do a restatement.  So there is a material weakness related to that item.  All right. So as I mentioned, we have to give you the financial performance indicators of concern.  These were not available when we did our meeting two months ago.  We had not filled out the data input form as we were waiting on a couple of things.  So I know that these graphics are very hard to see, but there's really no other way to present them.  These are clips from the data input form.  So there are 10 of them, and so each one presents with a table.  The first one is that general fund balance available as a percent of expenditures  and transfer outs without Power Bill is less than the LGC's stated condition,  which they believe you should have a rate of 25%.  And you are negative for that amount.  And you had the same performance indicator last year.  You weren't at that amount yet, but you were still below the 25% threshold.  And these are all calculated within the LGC's form.  So if you need any background information of how these are calculated,  we can provide that information.  Number two, number three, and number four relate to the water and sewer fund.  Number two is that operating net income, excluding depreciation,  but including debt service principal, that amount is less than zero.  That amount is negative.  It's actually coming up at negative 2.6 million,  and it actually has been negative for the last few years.  The next one is the unrestricted cash as a percentage of expenditures  within the water fund is less than the LGC's threshold of 16%.  It's at 10.5%.  That is a new performance indicator this year.  And then the last one, the capital asset ratio for the water and sewer fund  is less than the LGC indicated percentage of 50%.  And it's been that way for the last three years as presented.  So that's a repeat financial performance indicator of concern.  Number five and number six are related to the electric fund,  very similar to the water fund.  There is operating net income is less than zero.  It's negative 6.4 million.  And so that actual indicator has been a fail rating for the last three years.  And then the number six one is that your unrestricted cash  as a percentage of expenditures is less than the LGC's required percentage of 16%.  It's at 5.69%.  And then if you go onto the next page,  there's a couple violations at your financial statement level.  Number seven, with adoption of the budgets,  material weaknesses that we previously covered,  as well as a going concern opinion and that your audit is late.  So all of these management will have to craft responses to them  and get the city council members to sign off on those responses  of how you're going to work on fixing some of those.  And some of those like the capital asset addition ratio,  that's going to take years to fix.  And so it's going to be something that has to be done  over several years.  And one of the benefits,  the LGC does have examples of how to respond to those  to make that a little bit easier.  The rest of the presentation,  there are no changes from what you previously presented,  too much to go.  And before we get into questions for Leanne,  I want to make a couple of points.  So a lot of this information should not come as a surprise,  because this is why we actually recommended the rate adjustments  that you all adopted in April.  So we do anticipate that moving forward,  we should be on a better financial footing.  And the numbers that we have been receiving on a month-to-month basis,  those actions were taken, does reflect that.  Other things that were noted that's been going on for the last three years,  we have also already addressed a lot of those,  even though it will take a little bit more time for us to realize those.  From a financial standpoint,  management has already implemented changes to address those.  Lastly, year-end closeout.  So when you hear me talk about year-end closeout on a year-to-year basis,  last year was a big focus, this year will be another focus.  So we only have a couple more weeks left in this fiscal year,  and I know counsel will be looking at fiscal year 27 budget  for the upcoming public hearing tonight,  and then eventually we'll vote hopefully on the 22nd of this month.  That said, our work for closing out the current fiscal year  starts as soon as we get into the new fiscal year.  So finance staff will be busy to make sure that we can get these things in place  so we don't have at least that one finding for the late audit submission.  Previously, that date was October 31st,  but I think the LGC has moved that to now, it's December 31st.  Is that correct, Sheryl?  It is.  All right.  Now with that, feel free to ask management staff or Leanne any questions.  I'll go first.  Thank you for coming again.  Obviously, some of these repeat findings are something that I don't like to see,  but we're dealing with the cards that we have in front of us,  and I certainly have the manager and the staff and what we have done  that the next year, June 30th, 26th, audit will be in much better format  if not many discrepancies and LGC weaknesses identified.  I do have two things, and one of them goes back to two months ago,  but your major restatement of prior year's balances.  This transaction was completely muted.  Yeah.  Can I ask Tim about that?  He said, well, it was mentioned in the June 30th, 2024 footnotes.  Okay.  And I'm going to read you that footnote.  Hey, I got cheat sheets with me too.  I got the whole background information.  It's just this dollar amount was not mentioned in that footnote.  That dollar amount has been there ever since the creation back in fiscal year 2027,  and we weren't the auditors back in year 2027.  I think that's just kind of how it was done at that time.  You know me, 2027.  I'm reading the footnote.  Since fiscal year 2027, the city issued special obligation bonds.  We're not even 2027.  17, 17, 17, 17.  2017.  This is footnote number 21 in last year.  For last year.  That's a subsequent event footnote, right?  That's correct.  In May, 2024, the city and the public finance corporation began the process  of unwinding and concluding the e-market tax credits program that  resulted in the construction of the lockdown event center.  The unwinding process was completed in August, 2024.  Whereby the outstanding balances between the city, the Rocky Mount public  facilities authority, and the investor were all forgiven as key events  stipulated by the MMTC program were all met.  As a result, the balances between the city and the public finance  facilities corporation will be settled during the upcoming year.  My only beef is that dollar amount should have been.  The 16,000.  16 million.  16 million.  But it is on the fund statement.  So like if you go.  I bet I'm talking about the statement.  But to me, that should have been also.  The amount of the.  Because I would have.  I would have raised my hand.  I wasn't here when the when the deal transaction, et cetera.  I just wish that had been a little bit more clear.  The 16 million dollars transaction.  That's the only way to get that receivable off that balance is to restate.  That's the only way to settle it.  Like when the whole transaction.  Happened in fiscal year 2025.  That's the only way to get it off the books.  I don't think it was meant to deceive at all.  I just wish you had been.  Yeah.  Some of us.  We're not there.  Back in 2017.  Okay.  And the only other thing is.  Matter of internal controls, et cetera.  Whether it's a minor or major discrepancy, whatever.  You know.  June 30th.  24.  There are a period of time during that year.  The bank statement was not balanced for eight months.  In this most current year.  There was over 12 months.  The bank statement was not properly.  That to me should have been somehow.  Highlighted in your management concerns report.  That's that's my opinion.  We are taking great steps and I have already confidence.  That's no more.  An issue.  But to me, that should have been.  Right.  I think it's kind of wrapped up into the finding.  Number one, about the financial conditions.  And it says these conditions reflect inactive.  Financial oversight.  He there's missing reports.  There's missing bank.  Correct.  That type.  It just doesn't specifically say bankruptcy.  But I get what you're saying.  Thank you.  That's all I have.  I appreciate you being here.  His last statement.  I agree with.  I think it should have been in there.  Especially for.  Everyone who's not a financial.  CPA.  Or any of that.  I think it should be in there to help us.  Realize.  Where we are.  Not only us.  But the public.  And anybody else looking at it.  Going back to notes.  Two, three, four.  Three, four.  Three, four.  Three, four.  Three, four.  Three, four.  Three, four.  Three, four.  Three, four.  Three, four.  Three, four.  Going back to notes.  Two, three, four.  Five and six.  Help.  Help.  Understand.  In a basic level.  Not necessarily for this council.  But what causes those.  Those findings in there.  So these are all just.  Specific data points.  That the local government says.  Put this information into a template.  And then they spit out.  These indicators.  So this is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  This is the.  So these indicators.  So this is just what the.  Local Government Commission.  Has identified as an indicator that.  They think.  That the boards need to be honed.  Heat on.  And they need to be aware of.  So.  Three, four.  Operated income.  Is negative.  And so they're basically saying, as.  A city council member.  You need to be aware that it's negative.  And things.  May be done to make.  Bernie chose that positive.  What are some of those things that can be done must.  website where it has items that can be done, a kind of like example, some of the  things that they're going to include in there are rate increases, cutting staff,  cutting expenses, that sort of thing that y'all already started to work on.  And that's not me suggesting that, that's what the LGC suggested as  recommendations. Right. Okay, and the same thing for, you said that's for  two, three. So two, three, and four are all related to the water fund and  basically it's just saying that your net, your operating net income is negative,  your unrestricted cash as percentage of expenses is less than they would like to  be, and then your capital asset condition ratio. That capital asset  condition ratio is just basically saying if you just take the sheer numbers of  capital asset you have and the depreciation, it may, it leans towards  the idea that maybe your capital assets no longer are good and maybe you  need to consider potentially funding additional capital assets, but that may  not actually be the situation. Maybe your capital assets are very well  working well and it's just that the useful bias that's been assigned to  them may need to be reconsidered. Okay, well you certainly answered my  question, the point I wanted to get across. The LGC, one of their  recommendations for two, three, and four is to raise the rates, is what they're  saying. So what I'm saying here is we have, we provide water and sewer not  only to the citizens of Rocky Mount and the people of Rocky Mount, but we  also provide it to other municipalities who are publicly coming out and saying  that we're doing things and not providing them with information  regarding what we need to do. So I think it's clear, is how long does this  funding occur? So for the water and sewer fund, that operating net income has been  negative for at least the last three years. So we've only been the auditor  23, 24, 25. So I don't have the, I can pull the information prior, but it's  only presenting three years. So three years that's been out there. In  addition to Mr. Manager, we've had a cost of service study done on the  water and sewer, if I'm not mistaken, in the past. And it's been presented  publicly, been presented. And some of the suggestions are we've got to look  at the rates because our rates were too low. In addition, I think Mr.  Manager, we go to the UNC School of Government and they have a  dashboard that shows every water and sewer by municipalities and shows the  different ratios. And it shows it actually has red, yellow, green up there,  I believe, how your rates compare to others. And so I don't think, I'm  saying this, that really is not applicable here, but I'm saying this  because I don't think that the criticism that we're receiving about  raising the rates by other municipalities, I think is unfounded. I  think it's shortsighted. And I think if we go and look at the wholesale  rate that we provide to other municipalities compared to what they  charge their residents, I think people will find if they do the research  that the profit margin that they make is extremely high. And I've got  questions to ours to see if we're making that same profit margin. This  tells me that we're not. So if I lived in those municipalities or those  townships, I was a citizen, instead of blaming Rocky Mount, I  might ask my municipality, my township, what are they doing with the margin  that they're making off of? Are they upgrading their infrastructure? And I  think they've known for a long time. I think that would be a fair  assessment. On top of that, for our wholesale customers, every time that  we are even considering looking at adjusting this on all of the  enterprise funds, we reach out to them well in advance, sometimes  three, four, six months in advance to just let them know that, hey, we're  doing the study and there's a chance that we may be adjusting the rates.  We want them to be fully prepared for that. And we've done that over  the last several years. But I want to be clear,  this is we need to address what we have here. But I just  we've read it. We've been aware of what's going on and we're  trying to address the situation. And one of those is we've had to  address the rates because for too long, they've been artificially  one. One thing that I'd also like to bring counsel's attention to,  Leanne did mention it. I don't know what slide it is, but it talks  about our overall general fund balance. In the previous year I mentioned  before, this is before we had a finance director, this is before we  had a year in close out, but I projected without finance staff that  our fund balance was going to be around six, which was confirmed by  the end of the year audit. But this year I want to bring your  attention to where it is now, because I know that I have received  several inquiries from at least one council member about the fund  balance. And the fund balance here, I think, is at negative 15%.  Yeah, so I think the percentage that you're talking about goes on  to the next slide, but at the end of the year, it ended at 18.5.  Yeah, so see that in 2025, that's where we are. So that's our  starting point. And so when we were projecting for the current,  for the upcoming fiscal year, that's why  property tax was recommended, because we're already in the negative  with regards to our fund balance for the previous fiscal year.  Any other questions for Leanne and staff?  Thank you, Leanne, for making the trip.  Thank you.  The audit has been officially submitted to the LGC. Just as a  reminder, myself, Cheryl, and the mayor will be visiting the LGC  tomorrow to present the same information.  Councilman Gladwell.  Signing up the document after you issue your corrective action plan.  Yeah, so does that mean we approve it or does the audit still  have to be approved?  The audit has already been submitted, so that's taken care of.  What we have to do now, staff is working on that response, and what  you do is, when your signature says you endorse that plan, and so  I'm pretty sure that we're close to addressing all the things  that have been mentioned. And I will email that form to everybody  if you have comments or recommendations on how that should be  changed. I think we have at least 10 days to submit it.  Sorry, but there is no action. We have to take motion second.  Not at this point, no, sir.  Cheryl, you can update them on where we are with that. We've kind of  already started addressing some of that, correct?  It's not in writing yet, but we've already talked through the response.  Everything we've already discussed, correct. And some of the  things that have been presented in the upcoming budget as well.  All right, thank you.  Next, we'll have Mike Bond. I think you have a representative with  the insurance.  Thank you, thank you.  Good afternoon, dear counsel.  Mike Bond, I'm a social services director. This is Derek Slate.  He is our insurance broker for the city.  Insurance is difficult. This time of year,  brokers don't want to provide quotes like  further out in the future. So getting a quote early in the spring is  almost impossible. But our  insurance year runs concurrent with our fiscal year. So our  insurance policy will be expiring on the 31st of this month and  renewing on the 1st. So it's always a pressure cooker for  us to try to get these. And what you have in your hand,  some of these are solid numbers, some of them are still projections,  and they're probably different than what was shared with you  because this is an evolving process. Well, you got it down  to the point where we kind of know where we're at. And Derek,  I'll let you tell them a little about Surrey.  As it says here, we started working with  Rocky Mountain a few years ago. We're gonna be here on  contract till 2028, but we specialize in public entities.  I've been working with Surrey for 20 years now, and  we've just designed, we've built our whole agency around  nothing but cities, counties, towns, and schools. So we actually  work with the bulk of the counts in North and South Carolina.  So that brings us a lot of  leverage with the companies that we can offer City of  Rocky Mountain. So we have the, we're actually the largest insurer  with Liberty Mutual and Travelers and EMC and a few other companies  like that that niche and specialize in cities and counties,  etc. So, and then we've got a full risk management team  that we've got down here, and they're a part of the services  that we provide. So we've done a lot of different loss control  things like that to help in trying to drive down the cost  as well. So that's just a little bit about, a little bit  about the agency. And then actually to August 2024, we're now  part of what is called Alchemy Insurance. And so now that gave us  a national footprint. So now we're the 21st largest broker  in the country, but we're their public entity arm.  So we're, so we really, you know, align ourselves to  be able to help accounts just like this. So we're not  doing two of everything. We're not just a general broker.  We're niched in to just government.  So we also have a third-party claims administrator,  SRTPA, that's critical to our insurance program here.  Rejected annual cost for that's going to be about $115,000  for fiscal year 27. They help us with claims administration.  Really any kind of claim you can think of. We do a lot  of these in-house. People may not realize that. I actually  do a lot of claim investigations myself. But when  they get into the retention layer of the insurance companies,  we typically pass into the TPA. If they're workers comp,  that claim always goes to the TPA. Workers comp claims  are extraordinarily complicated because of the HIPAA laws  and everything else. Or if someone's been injured in an  auto accident, if it's an injury claim, we're passing  that to the third party. If there are disagreements  between the way I've settled the claim and maybe  they claim it out in town, we'll use the TPA as a  pressure relief valve for a second look.  Definitely, we have got hooked up with a good TPA  and Brentwood services. They recently changed their name  and I cannot remember what their new name is because  it's been just very recent. But if you don't see  the name Brentwood, you see another name associated  with our TPAs now.  Yeah, we actually just did a bid for the TPA services  on the first year that we started working with the  city. So they ended up becoming the best option  and saved quite a bit of money from previous  previous carriers.  I know you've had it on the slide, but just for the  benefit of the entire group, can you explain the  app of the TPA just so the public can have an  understanding for it as well? It's third party.  Yeah, third party administrator and they're responsible  for basically the way the city's program is set  up on the workers comp, for example, is  it's called a self-insured retention.  And so the city is responsible for all claims up  to the $650,000 amount and then for law enforcement  it goes up to $750,000.  So then once it hits over that amount, then your  excess workers comp insurance company kicks in  and they're they're called Midwest.  And so in that world, they would kick in and  start paying and take over the like it would be  a first dollar claim at that point.  But when you get to a certain level of premium,  it makes more sense to go self-insured than  and take on that first initial amount then just  pay an insurance company first dollar.  So it's actually saving you quite a bit of money  over time.  This is our current fiscal year's schematic for  insurance. We use these as a quick reference,  but it basically has all our policies up there  what the deductibles are.  For instance, you can see our cyber liability.  We have two million dollars worth of coverage  and a $50,000 deductible all in all the city  has a total of about six million dollars  worth of liability insurance.  Doing this for 14 years now and we've ever  gotten that far into it in the future.  But it seems to be the appropriate coverage  for the losses we experience on a yearly basis.  Next slide.  So, definitely over the last couple of years,  we've experienced a lot of upward pressure  on all insurance lines we have.  A lot of that's been because of market conditions.  Post-COVID property insurance, just the  explosion in property values and the cost  to rebuild structures has been a big driver  of all that.  Workers compensation, we're really strong there.  It's the strongest performing line.  We really, as compared with such municipalities  and the national market is whole or much lower.  That is really important to a strong safety program.  The city has a strong safety program.  Victor Law was a safety officer from time to time.  He was on top of everything and really what  you'll see coming up in our presentation  is the fruits of his labor.  He's really managed safety well.  Then we'll get into the tables and kind of  show you the underlying cost.  So, you can see as our premium has kind of  increased last year of $750,220.  This year, we've got it's $662,809.  That's for nearly half a billion dollars  of property value, which equates to about  12 cents on a rate of per hundred.  Next slide.  Why the decrease?  So there's a couple things.  We have been a travelers customer for 30 years,  even back in the St. Paul's day before  travelers existed.  We leverage our relationship.  I leverage my personal relationships with  individuals in the business and we leverage  competitive bids against our account to beat  it back down.  The goal was to keep it flat.  We were able to actually get a decrease,  which is phenomenal.  One thing that you'll see here is just since  2021, the values for the city has gone over  $155 million and travelers really, I'll have  to give them credit this year.  They really stepped up to the plate because  we put a lot of pressure on them and  really wanted them to, I mean, travelers  has been, they do more public entities  than anybody in the country.  There's over 1600 public entities, but they  were able to really step up and one thing  that happened in that, not only did the  values go up 155 million as you see,  but from 2021 to 2024, it was the worst  property market and that's ever been  recorded.  There was over a hundred billion dollars  in property losses globally.  So travelers is out there buying reinsurance  costs.  They're buying their own insurance to back  themselves up.  But what they now, thankfully everything  is starting to finally level off in the  property market.  The travelers as a company and Liberty  Mutual and some of the biggest carriers  that are $50 billion companies, they had  to go put in about over a hundred million  dollars of their own money as almost  self-insuring themselves against the, to  help drive these costs down.  So that's, you know, it became a major  problem and it actually eliminated a lot  of companies from the property insurance  market.  So from the supply-demand play is that  you've still got Travelers, Liberty and  some of the big players out there, but  that they were able to step up and  match and get down the, you know, to  the premiums we wanted, which actually  ended up turning out to be a 17%  decrease in the property this year,  which made a huge difference.  Next slide.  See our trend line as it falls up.  Market and volatility and then we've  come back down.  Next slide.  So this is a comparison between City A  and the national averages.  Now, I'll tell you, we've been asking  out to the closest City A is, but  there are sister municipality within  39. Similar operations, twin cities,  if you will.  But if you'll notice, our rate is  even below theirs at this point.  We do have significantly more values  and that number, that number is  incorrect.  It is the 439 million dollars.  There's a property value in the  previous slide, so I want to make  sure I caught that.  But, but essentially, I mean, you  can see we're sitting there at  12 cents.  National average is 18 to 25  depending on where you are and  even below our sister city.  So to clarify, the 534 is really  439? It is, yeah.  That first property slide, if you  look at that, that's the number.  It's on our safer values.  But again, we're just talking  about our exposures, right?  So property values only increase  40%, but the rates in premiums  increased by 73%, so the real  driver of that is not us, it's  not our property value, it's  values, it's market volatility.  That market volatility there, I  think it's coming back down.  Yeah, it's finally starting to  level off.  I mean, the last major hit we  saw that did a lot of damage to  some of these, for example,  pools in the Carolinas was  Hurricane Clean.  And the good thing about the  coverage that you have, your  property coverage is under a  blanket basis.  And so for that, you would  have, the way that would work  is to say you've got 439  million in values.  Let's say we've got this  building valued at 20 million  and there's a hurricane that  comes in or a big tornado.  Well, by the time you  rebuild the whole building,  etc., all the costs have  already gone up.  We've seen it go up to  over double.  We had that happen with a  school in about six,  seven years ago.  They just had their building  appraised at 40 million  dollars.  And by the time they rebuilt  it, it was close to 70  million.  The good thing about the  blanket coverage is you  would have the full 439  million to pull off of.  So it's like a gigantic  money market.  So that comparison is  against what you would see is  an 80% coinsurance policy.  We're in that situation.  They moved it to us, even  though we were $50,000 higher  midterm and fatal penalty  because they were like we  can't afford to take another  $20 million hit.  So if that was a big  hurricane or something like  that with the coverage you  have, you would have the  full blanket coverage.  So that's the best policy  you can have.  And Derek actually hinted  at a bit.  We have what's called  replacement value coverage  and there are a couple of  different ways that you can  enter a property.  One is for market value.  Others like it on an  appreciated basis.  We have replacement value  coverage, which is the  top tier.  So if something happens to  City Hall today, it's  decimated and it costs  just double to build it  back as long as we're  under that blanket limit.  We can put the building  back together.  We do have some cost  control strategies that  we implement from my side.  We schedule interval  property appraisals.  That way we can get back  to that true market rate  because what happens on a  year-to-year basis to  save money.  We'll look at some  national data and say,  okay, maybe we think the  property values have  inflated 2% or 3%.  We add that into the  next year to the values  that we're insuring.  But every couple years  we'll do blanket appraisals  to true that number up  and make sure we're not  over or under insurance.  Liability insurance.  So we have a whole  host of liability policies.  We've got general liability.  We've got law enforcement  liability,  appointed benefit liability.  There are several  policies in there.  But again,  see the drop.  That is for our 6 million  dollars of coverage.  This went down  significantly and that  was travelers  coming up to meet us  and us putting pressure  downwards on travelers  to get those numbers.  Next slide.  Got our trend line again.  It's a significant  decrease in rights here.  Next slide.  Here's kind of what  everybody wants to see.  How do we stack up?  As you can see,  City A has the same  coverage limits.  Their combined premium  is more in line  with where we were last year.  And that rate per  1 million dollars for them  is 87,000  or 64,232 for us.  Next slide.  Cost drivers again  for liability insurance  are always going to be  just the general.  We live in a  litigious society, right?  And over the last 10 years,  it seems like we're  more litigious than ever.  So,  you know,  the market knows  that there's a good chance  that any  any entity related  public or private are  going to end up in  the courtroom some time.  And that price reflects  those payouts and  legal changes that occur  as we go  through various years.  Cost control statuses.  We're always watching  these claims  we're using governmental  immunity.  We actually have claims  policies that tell us  how to apply governmental  immunity and I think  everybody here knows  we have a $10,000 gap  for claims in which  room.  So that strategy works  really well for us.  It helps to keep our  losses out of the  insurance sphere  and keeps these prices  lower.  So they're the  critical component.  And again,  strong operational  policies and controls  for our field operators  and strong  risk turns  transference programs  are really helping us.  So on our contracts,  we got to make sure  that we have the  appropriate insurance  crammed down  throughout our contracts  even to subcontractors  when we do larger  projects and we  try to stay on top of  that stuff.  Next slide.  Out here,  this is I mean,  you've got a  it's kind of like  the property values,  but you've got your  how are you to  switch to your auto  and that's a  you know about  57  units over  the last five  years.  And some of those  have been,  you know,  some of those  listed or scheduled  or you know,  when you've got a  firetruck it  and you add that  to the schedule it  over a million  dollars,  you know,  for that one  vehicle.  You know,  and that's how  we've structured  the to Mike's  point on the  governmental immunity  and things like that.  We can run it  through our systems  and base it  on a benchmarking  standpoint on  exactly what  what's recommended  because we do a  thorough analysis  of all your  we go back  10 years  and the way  the company's  work is  is they'll go back  they look at  your last  five-year  loss history  in order to  determine  the  the rates  and on the  excess workers  comp side  they go back  the last  10 years.  So  that's where  if we can  and  I can speak  very highly  of Mike  and the  loss control  team here  and everybody  that is  working  diligently  to help  drive down  costs because  that's why  Travelers  is  is able to  come in  and take this  we were able  to take this  up to  the highest  levels in  all of our  meetings  with Travelers  and  they're  they all  up Midwest  on the  excess workers  comp  absolutely loves  working with  Rocky Mountain  so does  Travelers  for the  long-standing  relationships  they did  not want that  to  you know  relationship  to be  gone  you know  to another  company.  So that  really helped  drive the  the prices  down  and then  it all  you know  based on  based on  the losses  you know  we can keep  those controlled  and keep  driving those  down  by doing  early return  to work  programs  and stuff  like that  on the  workers comp  get people  back to  work  then  it that's  going to help  bring your  costs down  tremendously  so that's  that's what's  taking place  behind the scenes.  So  specifically  with the auto  you can  see we  reduced  unit numbers  a lot of  vehicles  returned in  during  the rent  period  and in  addition to  those numbers  coming down  we're  actually saving  on  per vehicle  basis.  You see the  trend line  there is still  kind of  kind of  up there.  So  how do we  compare  so  definitely  well below  the national  average  and that  has a lot  to do  with that  composite rate  but I want to  talk a  little bit  about  Citi A.  So we  have a  fifty  thousand  dollar  deductible.  They  have a  five  hundred  thousand  dollar  deductible.  So you  can see  why  there is a  huge premium  difference in  their base  rates.  So when  we talk  about  and this  is one of  the things  we struggled  with with  this  presentation  we talked  about  comparing  different  cities  to  different  cities.  Insurance  is  really  a  tailored  contract.  It's  tailored  to that  entity.  So  it's  hard to  compare  apples  to  apples  sometimes.  But  for  comparison  stage  we just  kind of  want to  put that  up there  and  let  everybody  know you  that  yes,  they  are  paying  less  premium  we have.  And  again  cost  drivers.  We  had  a bunch  of  replacement  vehicles  we bought  last  year.  Those  were  new  vehicles  and  new  vehicles  I'm  sure  everybody's  been  watching  the price  of those  has  exploded  dramatically.  So  that  was a  big  contributor  to the  cost  of those  going  up.  So  you know  a  Ford  Explorer  back in  the day  used to  be  30  grand.  Now  if  you  get  one  that's  fully  loaded  I mean  you  Ford  Explorer.  So that's  kind of  what we're  facing  with some  of those  numbers  there was  the cost  of our  fleet  vehicle  turnover  and we  do have  accidents  that  sometimes  make it  into  the  research  level.  Cost  control  strategies  we  try to  make  sure  that  we  report  accurate  vehicle  inventory  to the  insurance  company  and  monitors  throughout  the  year.  We  have a  driver's  authorization  program  here so  no one  drives  for  the  city  on  city  business  is not into  this data  system that  I have  that's  provided  by the  state.  We  know if  they've  had an  accident  a ticket  for a  stop  sign  at  DWI  and  you have  a certain  threshold  that you  have to  meet to  be  eligible  to drive  but we  have a  driver's  what we  call a  driver's  authorization.  So  you know  we're  screening  people  for  DUI  DWI  trying to  remove  those  bad  drivers  from  the  pool.  So we  got a  good  confident  strong  driver's  pool.  And then  we have  accident  in a  city  vehicle  tries  to make  a  root  cause  determination  of  what  happened  and  then  we  make  suggested  penalties  against  the  employer.  If  somebody  has  a second  or  third  accident  we may  recommend  additional  driver  training  or  if  it's  egregious  dismissal.  All  right.  Cyber  reliability.  So  this  is  not  the  cyber  reliability  number  for  the year.  We  are still  working  on  that.  Our  expectations  is that  that  policy  will  stay  flat  as  well.  Derek  is  working  with  a  broker  to  get  us  additional  coverage  for  the  same  money.  It  looks  like  that's  probably  going  to  work  out  pretty  good.  Next  slide.  And  you  can  see  around  here  was  the  county  attack  that  was  happening  everywhere  and  cyber  reliability  was  kind of  a new  thing that's  being sold  in  municipalities.  And  we've  got it  as  actually  like  a  a  bell  and  whistle  policy  to  travelers.  But  we  ended  up  usually.  Thank  God  we  had it.  But  as  you  can see  that  that  really  sharp  line  is  where  the  cost  has  escalated  because  there  were  so  many  ransomware  attacks  nationwide.  It  is  leveling  often.  Yeah,  what  out there.  They  represent  the top  25  companies  in  England.  They're  getting you  guys  the best  the best  deal  every  year  in  shopping  that  annually.  All right,  I'm  going to  drag it  on.  So I'm going to  do this  quickly.  Cost control  strategies.  Koi Koi  works  very  hard with  this  team  to  ensure  we  have  strong  governance  policies  in place.  Everybody  knows about  passwords  and MFA.  He does  network  penetration  testing  and they  got a  really  great  workers  compensation.  As you  can see,  we're  actually  trending  down  here.  That's  mostly  through the  work of  our  safety  program.  Really  just  trying  to  keep  our  claims  out of  that  retention  level  for  the  carriers  and  just  cure  the claims  we  measure  in-house.  We're  trying to  reduce  those  on a  year  by  year  basis  quarter  by  quarter  basis.  As you  can  see  from  the  attacks,  there's  a  well  below  the  national  average.  All right.  It's  kind of  just a  wrap up  here.  Some  takeaways.  Any  questions?  We're  coming up  on the  questions  slide.  One of  the things  that I'd  like to  point out  about our  rates.  So  typically  in  years  past,  we've  been  required  to  make  that  lump  sum  payment  at  the  beginning  of  July.  This  year,  due to  our  financial  position  and  through  negotiation  to  both  these  guys  here.  They  were  able to  negotiate  installments.  So that  will  definitely  help our  cash flow  projections  as we  get through  the  next  several  months.  So  I think  that's  something  that we  should  be  applauded  for  and  thank  you  for  helping  us  with  that.  Yes.  Thank you.  Thank you  for your  time.  We  appreciate  you.  If  there  are no  further  questions  with  regard to  the  insurance,  our  next  couple of  items  are  considered  closed  session  for  economic  development  and  attorney  Clyburn.  I  think  we  may  have to  have a  motion  from  council.  So  moved.  Second.