 Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Here we go.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Now, 403, I would like to call the Rocky Mount City Council Committee to hold a meeting to order.  First off, I would like to welcome all citizens and guests to the meeting.  This council meeting is designed as a work session for council members to receive, review, and discuss information prepared by staff.  Only staff and council members are allowed to speak during this meeting without special permission.  I would like to remind citizens that there will be an opportunity to speak in public comment portion of the regular city council meeting.  At this time, I will ask the city manager to proceed with the business I have.  Thank you, Mr. Mayor.  Good afternoon, everyone.  We have three items that will be in open session today, starting with a presentation from the Rocky Mount Area Youth Council.  Then we have a presentation from Martin and Jenkins.  And then we'll wrap up with a presentation from our own staff with regard to our insurance renewal.  So with that being said, we'll start off with, I think, the president of the Rocky Mount Youth Council, Archer.  Yep.  First, I'd like to thank everyone for allowing us a couple of minutes.  Archie, in relation to the city, be here today.  We have an outstanding outgoing president of the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council.  She's going to provide a presentation of the activities that the youth council has been involved in over the last 12 months.  So I would introduce to you the senior outgoing president, Mr. Shania Shahada, outgoing president of the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council.  Sure.  Good afternoon, mayor, city council members, city manager, and others.  My name is Shania Shahada, and I'm the president of the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council, and I've been a proud member for the past four years.  Before we get started, I would like to, on behalf of Ms. Felisa Hunter and all of my members, thank you for allowing us the opportunity to make, to present our 2025-2026 year end report.  In my report, I will be highlighting the accomplishments, service learning projects, and leadership development activities throughout the fiscal year.  The Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council is a state-chartered organization comprised of area high school students from both Nash and Edgecombe counties.  Our mission is to serve, listen to, and represent local youth while symbolizing leadership, civic engagement, and community service.  This year, oh.  The automatic?  Take it off the automatic if you can.  This year, we currently have 36 participating members for the fiscal year.  During this year, our members have actively participated in several state youth council leadership conferences.  The leadership day conference helped prepare our officers for our upcoming meetings, projects, and other leadership responsibilities while allowing youth councils to exchange ideas and strategies during our brainstorming sessions.  Our members also attended our mini-grant conference, which allows youth councils to learn about grant opportunities to support community service initiatives.  Through the annual funding from the North Carolina Youth Endowment Fund, the Youth Advisory Council awards grants averaging $500 to support youth initiatives.  We are especially proud that Rocky Mountain has hosted the mini-grant conference for over 15 years.  Our members also participated in the team building and leadership conference.  In that conference, they teach youth essential skills, cooperation, commitment, and teamwork.  The team building programs show how groups function and how individuals contribute to group success.  Next slide.  Through the continued support from the City of Rocky Mountain, our members are also able to participate in our National League of Cities conferences.  The NFC City Summit provides young leaders from across the nation with educational and mentoring experiences that can be applied within our own community.  Some places that the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council has traveled to include Tampa, Florida, Atlanta, Georgia, and many others on my slide.  Community service still remains one of our core values in the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council.  We've assisted with the Rocky Mountain Senior Center at its annual senior Christmas event at the Archie McCarter Center.  We've also supported the Martin Luther King Jr. Commission during the Unity Breakfast and the Oratorical Competition.  We've also volunteered with the Down East Partnership for Children during the 2025 Little Farmers Festival where our members assisted with supervising informational and gaming areas for children and families.  The Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council has elevated its commitment to service and recognition by presenting service cords to qualifying graduating seniors,  and we are proud to share that the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council is the only second youth council in the state to implement and present service cords to recognize outstanding community service and volunteer dedication.  These cords symbolize the countless hours our seniors have devoted to serving their schools, community, and city while demonstrating leadership, compassion, and civic responsibility.  The City of Rocky Mountain Human Relations Department recently hosted its 2025-2026 End of Year Dinner to recognize our 12 graduating seniors and celebrate the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council's volunteer service and accomplishments throughout the year.  Through the North Carolina Department of Youth Advocacy and Involvement Office, we've been awarded a grant for our Hearts in Action Community Food Drive.  This initiative supported students and families during the holiday season by collecting non-perishable food items, and they were distributed to Williford, D.S. Johnson, and Baskerville Elementary Schools.  We've also adopted a section of Main Street through the Keep America Beautiful program, and we participated in community cleanup efforts approximately three or four times during the fiscal year.  Another exciting accomplishment was hosting our first ever LinkedIn Launchpad workshop for youth throughout the surrounding area.  This hands-on, peer-driven workshop was designed to help participants strengthen their LinkedIn profile and learn to professionally showcase their leadership experiences, skills, community involvement, and accomplishments online.  The Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council was also honored to receive recognition for our service efforts.  The Rocky Mountain Senior Center recognized us with our Volunteer of the Year Award for Outstanding Service, Dedication, and Commitment to the Senior Community.  The Mountain Zion First Baptist Church recognized us with the Excellence in Youth Leadership Award for Outstanding Contributions and Service to the Community.  Another way to measure our impact of the Youth Council is through service hours.  This year, our members have contributed to approximately 1,200 volunteer hours through meetings, conferences, and community service.  The hours represent the dedication our members have to serve others, to develop their leadership skills, and to strengthen our community.  We are very proud of the time and effort they invest in the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council, especially this year.  With the end of my presentation, I would like to thank the Mayor, the City Council members, the City Manager, the Human Relations Department, and Felisa Hunter, our community partners, parents, and supporters for their investment towards the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council.  Your support provides our youth to grow as leaders and to strengthen our community forevermore.  On behalf of the Rocky Mountain Area Youth Council, thank you for your time and continued support.  Thank you for that. I don't know, that made my soul smile because it's a lot of great people in this city.  So let the Council and the Mayor and the City Manager know where you're going to school next after this.  Well, I will be going to Fayetteville State University and I'll be majoring in political science.  So we'll see you come back. We'll see you come back. Congratulations to you. And thank you.  The only thing that I will add to that is that just a couple weeks ago, they had the graduation of all the seniors.  And out of all the seniors, I think we had over 10 or 15 people who were not only going to college, but also received scholarships on the way.  So congratulations to your team and to everyone with the Youth Council.  Next, we have a presentation from Mauling and Jenkins.  And you should have received slides over the weekend.  And so after the presentation, if you have questions, that'll be appropriate time to answer.  We want her to get through Ms. Leann to get through the presentation before we start.  All right. So my name is Leann Bagasala. I'm an audit partner at Maldives and Jenkins.  About two months ago, you heard from Tim Lyons. He is the audit engagement partner for the City of Rocky Mountain.  But he is out of the country today.  And so the local government commission did ask us to present some additional information for the final presentation of the audit.  So what you were presented with two months ago was our draft information that we had available.  And so the presentation that you have before you is the same exact presentation from last year, but there are a couple of edits to it.  So I'm not going to hone in on some of the pages that are very similar to what you were presented two months ago.  I'm just going to tell you what the changes were. So again, this is presenting your final results.  But the big thing that the local government commission and required by state statute is that we present the financial performance indicators of concern.  To city council, when we submit your audit to the state, they have what's called a data input form.  And that data input form, the result of it is financial performance indicators of concern.  So your job now is for us to present this information within 45 days of issuing your audit.  And then the city council and majority of city council members are going to have to sign a response to the local government commission that indicates how you're going to address these indicators.  And some of them are repeat from last year. So some of them are going to be a work in progress over multiple years.  So on the next page we have this is information about the purpose of our presentation.  I think we've already kind of gone through this and there's been no changes to this since your previous version.  The next slide tells you who Maldon's and Jenkins is and that has not changed in two months.  So we're going to skip through that as well as the next slide.  This is some of the additional services that we can provide as auditors.  The next page that we do have is your independent audit reports.  So when Tim presented two months ago, this was a draft and draft form.  Your opinions did not change in that you still receive unmodified opinions for your financial audit, which is the beginning opinion in your financial statements.  The only thing that we did add to your financial statements that are presented, I think you all have bound copy, is that we added an emphasis of a matter paragraph.  And that basically says that the city is undergoing financial stress as disclosed in note 21 and the conditions are indicative of a significant financial stress due to declining financial performance and ongoing challenges.  So we were just drawing attention to where further information was disclosed in the footnotes.  So there's nothing that's actually changed, it's just that we put that in there to draw emphasis.  The next slide kind of goes through what is in your financial statements and that has not changed.  And you have the next slide.  This is the certification that the city will try to get for this coming up here.  From an overview from the financial statements perspective, we did present to you draft information in the financial statements.  There have been very small changes to it from a fund level.  So I'm going to kind of skim through and kind of let you know if there was any changes that you should be aware of.  You go to the next page.  The general fund overall revenues and expenditures didn't change in the general fund.  There were a little bit of changes from a transfer perspective, but nothing that's significant to note.  So on the next page, your net change in fund balance did change by $180,000.  And so it actually looks better now than it did.  So small change there, there was just a late entry that came through that we needed to post to your financial statements.  When reviewing this slide, there was a change to your fund balance for the general fund by that same $180,000-ish.  From an enterprise perspective, there are three graphs that you have for the enterprise funds.  There are no significant changes to the change in net positions, the unrestricted net position, or the operating cash flow to any of the funds but the gas fund.  There were a couple of entries that still needed to be posted to the gas fund.  So those numbers have changed slightly from what was previously presented.  And then if you'll continue on to the next page.  These are your footnote disclosures.  And we didn't change any of your footnote disclosures significantly except for the capital assets.  So between the presentation previously provided and your issuance, there were changes to capital assets where the city brought on the Rocky Mount Event Center.  And so there were some changes to your capital asset footnote, which is note five.  And then if you continue on after page note 19 at the bottom, we did add note 20 and 21.  We did a little bit of changes in that from your previous draft, which is note on the next slide, it's note page 20 and 21.  There's a little bit of updated numbers in those related to your county changes and error corrections.  And then from a note 21 perspective, we have footnote disclosures.  And those two footnotes were in your previous version.  It's just that in this PowerPoint slide, they were in our PDF.  They were not listed as separate footnotes, but they are within them.  There were not significant changes in those, except for there was a restatement that we'll talk about in this page coming up.  So from a compliance perspective, when we presented to you two months ago, we gave you a draft that we thought the yellow book report and the single audit reports would say.  We continue to have the same opinion.  We had an unmodified opinion, but there were findings.  So no changes to this other than I changed some of the tense of the word to say we did issue an opinion.  From a required communication standpoint, there are no changes to any of our required communication.  That is, we have the same information related to the city's accounting policies, their estimates, their disclosures.  There were no disagreements with management.  We drew the same conclusions.  We had a lot of audit adjustments that we previously told you about, and we still maintain our independence as your external auditor.  So now we are on page 21.  So two months ago, we're on the bottom of page 21.  We did present three material weaknesses, which are number one, your financial condition, number two, your capital assets, leases, and related balances,  and number three, your accounting accounts payable and accrued payables.  Those accrued payroll, those footnote disclosures did not change.  The findings did not change, but we did add a number four since the previous version that you saw, and this is a statement to prior your balances.  This is related to the Rocky Mountain Public Facilities Corporation Fund.  There is a restatement of $16.7 million.  And this is a very technical matter, but essentially when recording the activity between the Rocky Mountain Public Facilities Corporation and the general fund,  there was a receivable book that basically was never going to actually be paid in cash.  And if you're applying government accounting standards at a fund level, we would have never booked that.  So there was a restatement for that because that transaction finished during the year.  And what ultimately happened was the general fund never received cash for that, but they received capital assets.  And from a government perspective, you wouldn't record that at the fund level.  You would just take on those assets at the government-wide level.  So that's why I mentioned that there was a restatement in the capital asset footnote because the city added all of those capital assets for the Rocky Mountain Inven Center,  and that kind of satisfied the receivable from that standpoint.  And the only way to record that is to do a restatement.  So there is a material weakness related to that item.  All right. So as I mentioned, we have to give you the financial form indicators of concern.  These were not available when we did our meeting two months ago.  We had not filled out the data input form as we were waiting on a couple of things.  So I know that these graphics are very hard to see, but there's really no other way to present them.  These are clips from the data input form.  So there are 10 of them.  And so each one presents with a table.  The first one is that general fund balance available as a percent of expenditures and transfer outs without Palville is less than the LGC's stated condition,  which they believe you should have a rate of 25 percent.  And you are negative for that amount.  And you had the same performance indicator last year.  You weren't at that amount yet, but you were still below the 25 percent threshold.  And these are all calculated within the LGC's form.  So if you need any background information of how these are calculated, we can provide that information.  Number two, number three and number four relate to the water and sewer fund.  Number two is the operating net income, excluding depreciation, but including debt service principal.  That amount is less than zero.  That amount is negative.  It's actually coming up at negative 2.6 million and it actually has been negative for the last few years.  The next one is the unrestricted cash as a percentage of expenditures within the water fund is less than the LGC's threshold of 16 percent.  It's at 10.5.  That is a new performance indicator this year.  And then the last one, the capital asset ratio for the water and sewer fund is less than the LGC indicated percentage of 50 percent.  And it's been that way for the last three years as presented.  So that's a repeat financial performance indicator of concern.  Number five and number six are related to the electric fund, very similar to the water fund.  There is operating net income is less than zero.  It's negative 6.4 million.  And so that actual indicator has been a fail rating for the last three years.  And then the number six one is that your unrestricted cash as a percentage of expenditures is less than the LGC's required percentage of 16 percent.  It's at 5.69 percent.  And if you go onto the next page, there's a couple of violations at your financial statement level.  Number seven with adoption of the budgets, material weaknesses that we previously covered, as well as a going concern opinion and that your audit is late.  So all of these management will have to craft responses to them and get the city council members to sign off on those responses of how you're going to work on fixing some of those.  And some of those like the capital asset addition ratio, that's going to take years to fix.  And so it's going to be something that has to be done over several years.  And one of the benefits, the LGC does have examples of how to respond to those that make that a little bit easier.  The rest of the presentation, there are no changes from them, which you previously presented too much.  And before we get into questions for Leanne, I want to make a couple of points.  So a lot of this information should not come as a surprise, because this is why we actually recommended the rate adjustments that you all adopted in April.  So we do anticipate that moving forward, we should be on a better financial footing.  And the numbers that we have been receiving on a month to month basis, those actions were taken does reflect that.  Other things that were noted that's been going on for the last three years, we have also already addressed a lot of those, even though it will take a little bit more time for us to realize those from a financial standpoint.  Management has already implemented changes to address those.  Lastly, year in, close out.  So when you hear me talk about year in, close out on a year to year basis, last year was a big focus.  This year will be another focus.  So we only have a couple more weeks left in this fiscal year.  And I know council will be looking at fiscal year 27 budget for the upcoming public hearing tonight and then eventually will vote hopefully on the 22nd of this month.  That said, our work for closing out the current fiscal year starts as soon as we get into the new fiscal year.  So finance staff will be busy to make sure that we can get these things in place so we don't have at least that one finding for the late audit submission.  Previously, that date was October 31st, but I think the LGC has moved that to now it's December 31st.  Is that correct? Sure.  All right. Now with that, feel free to ask management staff or Leanne any questions.  We'll go first.  Thank you for coming again.  Obviously, some of these repeat findings are something that I don't like to see, but we're dealing with the cards that we have in front of us.  And I certainly have the manager and the staff and what we have done that the next year, June 30th, 26th audit will be in much better format if not many discrepancies and LGC weaknesses identified.  I do have two things and one of them goes back to two months ago.  But your major restatement of prior year's balance, this transaction was completely muted.  Yeah.  And I asked Tim about that and he said, well, it was mentioned in the June 30th, 2024 footnotes.  Okay.  And I'm going to read you that footnote.  I got cheat sheets with me too.  I got the whole background information.  No, it's just this dollar amount was not mentioned in that footnote.  That dollar amount has been there ever since the creation back in fiscal year 2027.  And we weren't the auditors back in 2027.  I think that's just kind of how it was done at that time.  You know, I'm reading the footnote.  Since fiscal year 2027, the city issued special obligation bonds.  We're not even 2027.  17, 17, 17, 17.  2017.  This is footnote number 21 in last year.  For last year.  That's a subsequent event footnote, right?  That's correct.  In May, 2024, the city and the public finance corporation began the process of unwinding  and concluding the e-market tax credits program that resulted in the construction  of the lockdown event center.  The underwinding process was completed in August, 2024, whereby the outstanding  balances between the city, the Rocky Mount Public Facilities Authority,  and the investor were all forgiven as key events stipulated by the MMTC  program were all met.  As a result, the balances between the city and the public finance  facilities corporation will be settled during the upcoming year.  My only beef is that dollar amount should have been.  The 16,000.  16 million.  16 million.  But it is on the fund statement.  So, like, if you go.  You're talking about the statement.  But to me, that should have been also.  The amount of the.  Because I would have.  I would have raised my hand.  I wasn't here when the deal transaction, et cetera.  I just wish that had been a little bit more clear because of the 16 million  dollars transaction.  That's the only way to get that receivable off that fund balance is to restate.  That's the only way to settle it.  Like, when the whole transaction happened in fiscal year 2025, that's the only  way to get it off the books is to remove it through a prior period adjustment.  I don't think it was meant to deceive at all.  I just wish it had been identified.  Some of us were not there back in 2017 or whenever it was procured.  Okay.  And the only other thing is a matter of internal controls, et cetera,  whether it's a minor or major discrepancy, whatever.  You know, June 30th, 2024, there was a period of time during that year that the bank  statement was not balanced for eight months.  In this most current year report, there was over 12 months, the bank statement  was not promptly balanced.  That to me should have been somehow highlighted in your management concerns  report.  That's my opinion only.  We have taken great steps, and I have already confidence that's no more an issue.  But to me, that should have been highlighted.  Right.  I think it's kind of wrapped up into the finding number one about the financial  conditions, because it says these conditions reflect inadequate financial oversight.  There's missing reports, there's missing bank recs, that type.  It just doesn't specifically say bank recs, but I get what you're saying.  Thank you.  That's all I have.  All right.  I appreciate you being here.  And his last statement I agree with.  I think it should have been in there, especially for everyone who's not a  financial CPA or any of that.  I think it should be in there to help us realize where we are, not only us,  but the public and anybody else looking at it.  Going back to notes two, three, four, five, and six dealing with the  enterprise funds, help understand in a basic level, not necessarily for  this council, but what causes those findings in there.  So these are all just specific data points that the local government says  put this information into a template and then they spit out these  indicators.  This is just what the local government commission has identified as an  indicator that they think that the boards need to be honed in on and  they need to be aware of.  So two, three, four, operating income is negative.  And so they're basically saying, as a city council member, you need to  be aware that it's negative and things need to be done to make sure  that it goes back positive.  What are some of those things that can be done to make it go back  positive?  If you look at the LGC's website where it has items that can be done,  an example, some of the things that they're going to include in there  are rate increases, cutting staff, cutting expenses, that sort of thing  that you all have already started to work on.  And that's not me suggesting that.  That's what the LGC suggested as recommendations.  Right.  Okay.  And the same thing for, you said that's for two, three.  So two, three, and four are all related to the water fund.  And basically it's just saying that your operating net income is  negative, your unrestricted cash as percentage of expenses is less  than they would like to be, and then your capital asset condition  ratio.  That capital asset condition ratio is just basically saying if you  just take the sheer numbers of capital asset you have and the  depreciation, it leans towards the idea that maybe your capital  assets no longer are good and maybe you need to consider potentially  funding additional capital assets.  But that may not actually be the situation.  Maybe your capital assets are very well working well and it's just  that the useful bias that's been assigned to them may need to be  reconsidered.  Okay.  Well, you certainly answered my question.  The point I wanted to get across, the LGC, one of their  recommendations for two, three, and four is to raise the rates.  It's what they're saying.  It's an idea.  It's an idea.  So what I'm saying here is we provide water and sewer not only  to the citizens of Rocky Mount and the people of Rocky Mount, but  we also provide it to other municipalities who are publicly coming  out and saying that we're doing things and not providing them  with information regarding what we need to do.  So I think it's clear.  How long has this finding occurred?  So for the water and sewer fund, that operating net income has  been negative for at least the last three years.  So we've only been the auditor 23, 24, 25.  I can pull the information prior, but it's only presenting three  years.  So three years that's been out there.  In addition to Mr.  Manager, we've had a cost of service study done on the water  and sewer, if I'm not mistaken, in the past.  And it's been presented publicly, been presented.  And some of the suggestions are we've got to look at the  rates because our rates were too low.  In addition, I think, Mr.  Manager, you go to the UNC School of Government and they  have a dashboard that shows every water and sewer by  municipalities and shows the different ratios and it shows  it actually has red, yellow, green up there, I believe,  how your rates compare to others.  And so I don't think, I'm saying this, that really is not  applicable here, but I'm saying this because I don't think  that the criticism that we're receiving about raising the  rates by other municipalities I think is unfounded.  I think it's short-sighted.  And I think if we go and look at the wholesale rate that we  provide to other municipalities compared to what they charge  their residents, I think people will find if they do the  research that the profit margin that they make is  extremely high.  And I've got questions to ours to see if we're making  that same profit margin.  This tells me that we're not.  So if I lived in those municipalities or those  townships, I would, you know, I was a citizen, instead of  blaming Rocky Mountain, I might ask my municipality, my  township, what are they doing with the margin that  they're making off of?  Are they upgrading their infrastructure?  And I think they've known for a long time.  I think that would be a fair assessment.  On top of that, for our wholesale customers, every  time that we are even considering looking at adjusting  this on all of the enterprise funds, we reach out to  them well in advance, sometimes three, four, six  months in advance to just let them know that, hey,  we're doing the study and there's a chance that we  may be adjusting the rates and we want them to be  fully prepared for that.  And we've done that over the last several years.  But I want to be clear, this is, you know, we  need to address what we have here.  But I just, we've read it, we've been aware of  what's going on and we're trying to address the  situation.  And one of those is we've had to address the  rates because for too long they've been  artificially low.  One thing that I'd also like to bring counsel's  attention to, Leanne did mention it.  I don't know what slide it is, but it talks  about our overall general fund balance.  In the previous year, I mentioned before, this  is before we had a finance curator, this is  before we had a year in closeout, but I  projected without finance staff that our fund  balance was going to be around six, which was  confirmed by the end of the year audit.  But this year I want to bring your attention  to where it is now.  Because I know that I have received several  inquiries from at least one council member  about the fund balance.  And the fund balance here I think is at  negative 15%.  Yeah, so I think the percentage that you're  talking about goes on to the next slide.  But at the end of the year it ended at  18.5.  Yeah.  So see that in 2025, that's where we are.  So that's our starting point.  And so when we were projecting for the  current, for the upcoming, I'm sorry, for the  upcoming fiscal year, that's why property  tax was recommended because we're already  in the negative with regards to our fund  balance for the current, for the previous  fiscal year.  Any other questions for Leanne and staff?  Thank you, Leanne, for making the trip.  Thank you.  The audit has been officially submitted to  the LGC.  Just as a reminder, myself, Cheryl, and  the mayor will be visiting the LGC tomorrow  to present the same information.  Councilman Gladwell.  So signing up the document after you  issue your corrective action plan.  Yes.  Does that mean we approve it or does  the audit still have to be approved?  The audit has already been submitted, so  that's taken care of.  What we have to do now, staff is  working on that response.  And what you do is when your signature  says you endorse that plan.  And so I'm pretty sure that we're  close to addressing all the things that  have been mentioned.  And I will email that form to everybody  if you have comments or recommendations  on how that should be changed.  I think we have at least 10 days to  submit it.  Sorry, but there is no action.  We have to take motion second.  Not at this point, no second.  Cheryl, you can update them on where  we are with that.  We've kind of already started  addressing some of that, correct?  They're not, it's not in writing yet.  Yes.  But we've already talked through  the response.  Everything we've already discussed.  Correct.  And some of the things that have  been presented in the upcoming budget  as well.  All right.  Thank you.  Next we'll have Mike Bond.  I think you have a representative  with insurance.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Good afternoon.  Mike Bond, I'm a special services  director.  This is Derek Slate.  He is our insurance broker for the  city.  Insurance is difficult.  This time of year, brokers don't  want to provide quotes like  further out in the future.  So getting a quote earlier in  the spring is almost impossible.  But our insurance year runs  concurrent with our fiscal year.  So our insurance policy will be  expiring on the 31st of this  month and renewing on the 1st.  So it's always a pressure cooker  for us to try to get these.  And what you have in your hand,  some of them are still  projections.  And they're probably different  than what was shared with you  because this is an evolving  process.  Well, you got it down to the  point where we kind of know  where we're at.  And Derek, I'll let you tell  them a little about Surrey.  And we, as it says here, we  started working with Rocky  Mountain a few years ago.  We're going to be here on  contract until 2028.  But we specialize in public  entities.  And I've been working with  Surrey for 20 years now.  And we've just designed,  we've built our whole agency  around nothing but cities,  counties, towns, and schools.  So we actually work with the  bulk of the counts in North and  South Carolina.  So that brings us a lot of  leverage with the companies  that we can offer.  City of Rocky Mountain.  So we have the, we're  actually the largest insurer  with Liberty Mutual and  Travelers and EMC, a few  other companies like that that  niche and specialize in  cities and counties, et cetera.  So and then we've got a full  risk management team that  we've got down here.  And they're a part of the  services that we provide.  So we've done a lot of  different loss control things  like that to help in trying  to drive down the cost as  well.  So that's just a little bit  about the agency.  And then actually to August  2024, we're now part of  what is called Alchemy  Insurance.  And so now that gave us a  national footprint.  So now we're the 21st  largest broker in the country,  but we're their public entity  arm.  So we're, so we really, you  know, align ourselves to be  able to help accounts just  like this.  So we're not doing two of  everything.  We're not just a general  broker.  We're niched in to just  government.  So we also have a third  party claims administrator.  That's our TPA that's  critical to our insurance  program here.  Rejected annual costs for  that's going to be about  $115,000 for fiscal year  27.  They help with the  claims administration.  Really any kind of claim  you can think of.  We do a lot of these in  house.  People may not realize  that.  I actually do a lot of  claim investigations myself.  But when they get into the  retention layer of the  insurance companies, we  typically pass into the  TPA.  If they're worker's comp,  that claim always goes  to the TPA.  Worker's comp claims are  extraordinarily complicated  because of the HIPAA laws  and everything else.  Or if someone's been  injured in an auto accident,  if it's an injury claim,  we're passing that to  the third party.  If there are disagreements  between the way I've  settled the claim and maybe  they claim it out in  town, we'll use the  TPA as a pressure relief  valve for a second look.  Definitely we have got  hooked up with a good  TPA and Brentwood  services.  They recently changed  their name.  I cannot remember what  their new name is because  it's been just very  recent.  But if you don't see  the name Brentwood,  you see another name  associated with our  TPAs now.  We actually just  did a bid for the  TPA services on the  first year that we  started working with  the city.  So they ended up  becoming the best  option and saved quite  a bit of money from  previous carriers.  I know you've had it  on the slide, but just  for the benefit of the  entire group, can you  explain the app of  the TPA just so the  public can have an  understanding of  it as well?  It's a third-party  administrator and  they're responsible  for basically the  way the city's  program is set up  on the worker's  comp, for example,  is it's called  a self-insured  retention.  And so the  city is responsible  for all claims up  to the $650,000  amount.  And then for  law enforcement,  it goes up to  $750,000.  So the city is  responsible for  all claims up to  the $650,000  amount.  And then for  law enforcement,  it goes up to  $750,000.  And so then once it  hits over that  amount, then your  excess workers  comp insurance  company kicks in  and they're  called Midwest.  And so in  that world,  they would kick  in and start  paying and take  over like it  would be a  first-dollar  claim at that  point.  But when you  get to a  certain level of  premium, it  makes more  sense to go  self-insured  and take on  that first  initial amount  of  insurance company  first dollars.  So it's  actually saving you  quite a bit  of money over  the time.  Thank you.  This is our  current fiscal year  schematic for  insurance.  We use these  as a quick  reference.  But it basically  has all our  policies up there,  what the  deductibles are.  For instance,  you can see  our cyber  liability.  We have $2  million worth  of coverage  and a  year  and a  year  and a  year.  We've  been  doing this  for 14  years now  and we've  ever gotten  that far  into it  if we don't  in the  future.  But it  seems to be  the  appropriate  coverage  for the  losses we  experience  on a  yearly basis.  Next slide.  So  explosion  in property  values and the  cost to  rebuild  structures has  been a  big  driver of  all that.  Workers  compensation,  we're  really  strong there.  It's the  strongest  performance  in line  as compared  with  municipalities  and the  national  market as  whole  or much  lower.  That is  on top  of everything  and  really  what you'll  see coming  up in  our presentation  is the  fruits of  this labor.  It's really  managed  safety well.  Then we'll  get into  the  tables and  kind of  show you  the  underlying  cost.  So you  can see  as our  premium  has kind  of  doubled  and that's  for nearly  half a  billion dollars  of property  value,  which equates  to about  12 cents  on a  rate of  per  hundred.  Next slide.  Why did it  decrease?  So there's  a couple  things.  We have  been a  traveler's  customer  for 30  years,  even back  in St.  Paul's  with  individuals in  the business,  and we  leveraged competitive  bids against  our account  to beat  it back  down.  The goal  was to  keep it  flat.  We were  able to  actually  get a  decrease,  which is  phenomenal.  The only  thing that  you'll  see here  is just  since  2021,  the values  have  gone down.  Travelers  do more  public  entities than  anybody in  the  country.  They do  over  1,600  public  entities,  but they  were  able to  really  step up.  One thing  that  happened  in that  not  only did  the  values  go up  155  million,  so  Travelers  is out there  buying  reinsurance  costs.  They're  buying their  own  insurance  to back  themselves  up.  Thankfully,  everything is  starting to  finally  level off  in the  property  market,  but  Travelers  as a  company  and  Liberty  Mutual  is  down.  It became  a major  problem,  and it  actually  eliminated  a lot  of  companies  from the  property  insurance  market.  From the  supply-demand  play,  you still  have  Travelers,  Liberty,  and some  of the  big  players  out there,  but  they  are  taking  advantage of  the  market  volatility  as it  falls  up,  market  volatility,  and then  we  come  back down.  Next slide.  So,  this is a  comparison  between  city  A and  the  national  averages.  Now,  I'll tell you,  we've  been  Our rate is even below theirs at this point. We do have significantly more values and that number that number is incorrect  It is the four hundred and thirty nine million dollars  There's a property value in the previous slide. So I want to make sure I caught that but uh  But essentially, I mean you can see we're sitting there at 12 cents  National average is eighteen to twenty five depending on where you are and even below our sister city  So to clarify the five thirty four is really four thirty one. It is  That first property slide if you look at that that's the number it's on our safer values  But again, we're just talking about our exposures, right? So  Property values only increase forty percent, but the rates  You know premiums increased by seventy three percent. So the real driver that is is not us. It's not a property ball  It's values is market volatility  That market volatility there. I think it's coming back down. Yeah. Yeah, it's finally starting to level  Off I mean the last major hit we saw that did a lot of damage to  Some of these for example pulls in the Carolinas was hurricane clean and  The good thing about the coverage that you have your property coverage is under a blanket  Basis and so for that you would have the way that would work is to say you've got four hundred and thirty nine million in values  Let's say we've got this building valued at  239 million in values. Let's say we've got this building valued at 20 million and there's a hurricane that comes in or a big tornado  Well by the time you rebuild  The whole building etc. All the costs have already gone up. We've seen it go up  Double we had that happen with a school and in  About six seven years ago. They just had their their building of praise that  Forty million dollars and by the time they they rebuilt it it was close to 70 million  The good thing about the blanket coverage is you would have the full four hundred and thirty nine million to pull off of so it's like  A gigantic money market. So  That comparison is against what you would see is an eighty percent co-insurance policy  We're in that situation. They moved it to us even though we were fifty thousand dollars higher  Did term and fatal penalty because they were like we can't afford to take another 20 million dollar hit  So if that was a big hurricane or something like that with the coverage you have  You would have the full blanket coverage. So that that's the best policy you can have  Derek actually hinted at a bit  We have what's called replacement value coverage and there are a couple different ways that you can enter a property  One is for market value others like it on an appreciated basis. We have replacement value coverage, which is the top tier  So if something happens to City Hall today is decimated and it costs just double to build it back as long as we're there that blanket  Limit we can put the building back together  We do have some cost control strategies that we implement from my side  We we schedule interval property appraisals that way we can get back to that true market rate because what happens on a year-to-year  Basis to save money. We'll look at some national data and say, okay  Maybe we think the property values have been plated two percent or three percent  You add that in to the next year the values that were insuring but every couple years  We'll do blanket appraisals to true that number up and make sure we're not over under insuring  Liability insurance so we have a whole host of liability policies. We've got general liability. We've got the law enforcement liability  Point of benefit liability. There's there's several  policies in there, but again  See the drop  That is for our six million dollars of coverage. It's went down significantly and that was  Travelers coming up to beat us and and us putting pressure downwards on travelers to get those numbers  Got our trendline again, it's a significant decrease in rights here  Here's kind of what everybody wants to see how do we stack up  As you can see city a has the same covers limits. They're combined premium is more in line with where we were last year  And that break per one million dollars for them is eighty seven thousand words sixty four two thirty two for us  next slide  Cost drivers again  For liability insurance are always going to be just the general we live in a litigious society, right?  And over the last ten years it seems like we're more litigious than ever  So, you know the market knows that there's a good chance that any any entity ready to pull with a private or get it up  the courtroom sometime and that price reflects those payouts and  legal changes that occur as we go  various years  cost control statuses  We're always watching these claims we're using  Governmental immunity we actually have claims policies that tell us how to apply government unity  And I think everybody here knows we have a $10,000 gap for claims in which room  So that strategy works really well for us  It helps to keep our losses out of the insurance sphere and keeps these prices lower. So they're the critical component  And again strong operational policies and controls for our field operators and strong risk turns  Transference programs are really helpful. So on our contracts, we got to make sure that we have the appropriate insurance crammed down  Throughout our contracts even to subcontractors when we do larger projects and we try to stay on top of this stuff. That's love  Now here this is I mean you've got a it's kind of like the property values  But you've got your your power units which is your auto and that's up  You know about 57  Units over the last five years and some of those have been you know  Some of those listed or scheduled or you know when you've got a firetruck it and you add that to the schedule it  Over a million dollars, you know for that one vehicle  You know and that's how we've structured the to Mike's point on the governmental immunity and things like that  We can run it through our systems and and base it on a benchmarking standpoint on exactly what  What's recommended because we do a thorough analysis of all your we go back ten years and the way the company's work is  Is they'll go back  They look at your last five-year loss history in order to determine the the rates and on the excess workers comp side  They go back the last ten years  So that's where if we can and I can speak very highly of Mike and the loss control team here and everybody and  That is working diligently to help drive down costs because that's why travelers is  It's able to come in and take this we were able to take this up to the highest levels in all of our meetings with  travelers and  There they all midwest on the excess workers comp absolutely loves working with Rocky Mountain  Sodas travelers for the long-standing relationships. They did not want that  you know  Relationship to be gone, you know to another company  So that really helped drive the the prices down and then they'll you know, based on based on the losses  You know, we can keep those controlled and keep driving those down  By doing early return to work programs and stuff like that on the workers comp to get people back to work  Then it that's going to help bring your costs down tremendously  So that's that's what's taking place behind the scenes. So specifically with the auto you can see we reduced  Unit numbers a lot of vehicles were turned in during the rent period and in addition to those numbers coming down  We're actually saving on a per vehicle basis  See the trend line there is still kind of kind of up there  So  How do we compare so  Definitely well below the national average and that has a lot to do with that composite rate  But I want to talk a little bit about city a so we have a fifty thousand dollar deductible  They have a five hundred thousand dollar deductible so you can see why there's a huge premium difference in their base rates  So when we talk about and this is one of the things we struggled with with this presentation  We talked about comparing different cities to different cities  Insurance is really a tailored contract. It's tailored to that entity. So it's hard to compare apples to apples sometimes  but  For comparison stage, we just kind of want to put that up there and let everybody know you that  Yes, they are paying less premium, but they also have ten times more to go  Again cost drivers  We had a  Bunch of replacement vehicles. We bought last year. Those were new vehicles and new vehicles  I'm sure everybody's been watching the price of those that's exploded dramatically  So that was a big contributor to the cost of those going up  So, you know a Ford Explorer back in the day used to be 30 grand now if you get one that's fully loaded  I mean you could spend 70 or 80 thousand dollars on Ford Explorer  So that's kind of what we're facing with some of those numbers there was the cost of our fleet  vehicle turnover  And we do have accidents that  Sometimes make it into the research level  Cost control strategies. We try to make sure that we report accurate vehicle inventory to the insurance company and monitors throughout the year  We have a driver's authorization program here  So no one drives for the city on city business that is not into this data system that I have that's provided by the state  we know if they've had an accident a ticket for a stop sign at DWI and  You have a certain threshold that you have to meet to be eligible to drive what we have a driver's what we call a driver's  Authorizations, so, you know, we're screening people for DUI DWI trying to remove those bad drivers from the pool  So we got a good confident strong driver school  And then we have our vehicle accident review board  The barb basically looks at every accident the city vehicle tries to make a  root cause determination of what happened and then we  Make suggested penalties against them for  If somebody has a second or third accident, we may recommend additional driver training or if it's egregious dismissal  I  Saw reliably so this is not the cyber liability number for the year  We are still working on that our expectations is that that policy will stay flat as well  Derek is working with a  Worker to get us additional coverage for the same money. It looks like that's probably going to work out pretty good  And you can see  Around here was the content attack that was happening everywhere and cyber liability was kind of moved back here before  21 I get you know, you're 18 19  it was kind of a new thing that's being sold in municipalities and we've got it is actually like a  Bell and whistle policy to travelers when we ended up using  Thank God we had it but as you can see that that really sharp  Line is where the cost is escalated because there were so many ransomware attacks nationwide. It is leveling off  Yeah, and what we've done is we work with  We work with insured trust and they're they're the largest cyber broker out there and they represent the top 25 companies  They're getting you guys the best the best deal every year and shopping that annually. I don't drag it on  Cost control strategies  Works very hard with this team to ensure we have strong governance policies in place  Everybody knows about passwords and MFA. He does network penetration testing and they got a really strong recovery for  Okay workers compensation as you can see we're actually trending down here that's  Mostly through the work of our safety program  Really just trying to  Keep our claims out of that retention level for the carriers and just you know  Here the claims we measure in-house. We're trying to reduce those on a year-by-year basis quarter by quarter basis  As you can see from the attached we are still boy city and well below the national average  All right, it's kind of a just a wrap up here some takeaways  Any questions  One of the things that I'd like to point out about our rate so typically in years past  We've been required to make that lump-sum payment at the beginning of July  This year due to our financial position and through negotiation to both these guys here  They were able to negotiate installments  So that will definitely help our cash flow projections as we get through the next several months  So I think that's something that we should be applauded for and thank you for helping us with that  Yeah, all right, thank you for your time we appreciate you  If there are no further questions with regard to the insurance our next couple of items are considered closed session for economic development  and attorney-client  I  Think we may have to have a motion from council so move  You