 Well, I'd call the order of the regular scheduled meeting for the Rocky Mountain City Council.  This time, I'd like for everybody to please stand and observe a moment of silence to pray.  Thank you.  This time, I'd like to ask the clerk if you'll please call the roll.  Council Member Knight. Here. Blackwell. Here. Robertson. Here. T.J. Walker.  Daltridge. Here. Harris. Here. Jabaris Walker. Here.  Okay. We have a quorum. This time, I'd like to receive a motion to approve the minutes of the  minutes for the special call City Council meeting which was held on March 30th  of 2026. Is there a motion? Motion made by Councilman, who was that? Jabaris Walker.  Second by Councilman Ruben Blackwell. Is there a need for discussion?  Hearing none, all in favor, please say aye. Aye. All opposed, like, sign. Minutes have been  approved. At this time, I'd like to consider are there any additions or deletions to the  agenda? None had been brought to my attention up until now. Does anybody have any additions  or deletions? Okay. Having none, I'll turn the meeting over to our City Manager, Elton Daniel.  Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Good evening, everyone.  Well, you can use mine. It's booming.  Testing. There we go. All right. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, members of Council, public.  Hope everyone's having a good day. I would like to take a moment to provide an important  update regarding water conservation efforts and highlight at an upcoming community arts event.  Effective immediately, the city of Rocky Mount has implemented mandatory stage one water  conservation measures in accordance with the city's drought management implementation plan.  This action is necessary due to ongoing drought conditions and intended to reduce  water demand and preserve available water resources. Under mandatory stage one, irrigation  is limited to designated days and times and additional restrictions apply to activities  such as vehicle washing and the use of water at certain city facilities.  I want to thank the residents, businesses, and community organizations for their continued  cooperation and commitment to responsible water use. Conservation efforts today can help reduce  the need for additional restrictions in the future. Additional information, including a full  irrigation schedule and conservation requirements, is available through the  city of Rocky Mount's website and official communication channels.  I'd also like to highlight an upcoming arts event at the Imperial Center for the Arts and  Sciences. On June 28th, the Maria V. Howard Arts Center will host its people choice  art show reception featuring artists from Edgecombe, Nash, and Wilson Counties.  This event provides an opportunity to celebrate the creativity and talent of local regional  artists while showcasing the important role that arts and culture play in our community.  We appreciate the continued partnership between the Imperial Center and the community  of arts organizations in creating opportunities that enrich the quality of life in Rocky Mount.  And last but not least, I don't have this in my official update, but I would like to  update a situation going on at City Lake. First of all, because of the drought condition,  the water level in City Lake has gone down. And so we're just hoping that it will rain in  the next couple of days and we'll get back to that higher water level. But also, the flag was  actually vandalized at that site as well. On May 30th, the flag was vandalized and the rope  was cut out, the flag was stolen, the light destroyed, and the staff discovered this just  a few weeks ago. Staff reached out to the contractor who installed it and they came out  to survey the damage and provide estimates to fix it. The total cost to fix this is approximately  $4,000. In order to prevent further issues, the rope box will be elevated on the flagpole  and the city has the flag on hand to replace it and the contractor will perform the work  as soon as their schedule allows, and most importantly, when the parts that they have  ordered arrive. Just wanted to give that update because we've seen some communication about  the flag not being up, but it's because it was vandalized and the city had to go to the  people that installed it to put it back. But we do have the flag on hand and we do  plan on installing that as soon as the parts come in. Thank you.  Thank you very much and thanks for having me and thanks to the council. Yeah, I'm here  to deliver some very good news. As hopefully you probably know, your electric customers  enjoy some of the most affordable rates, highest reliability, and best customer service  for electric utility customers across the state. And beyond just that, you all have  been recognized nationally in three areas, which I'd like to talk a little bit about.  Also, as you know, you receive services from Electricities in two ways. First off,  Rocky Mountain is one of 32 members of the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency,  which means you receive wholesale power from the power agency. And also we provide  a wide variety of services to assist you however you may need. So on to the awards.  All three of these awards are presented by our national organization, the American  Public Power Association, and the award utilities in various areas. The first one,  as you said, is the Reliable Public Power Provider Award. Hard to say five times in a row,  fast. We call it RP3. RP3 is an assessment, a national assessment and benchmarking  mechanism whereby utilities get to see how they are doing relative to other utilities,  other public power utilities across the country. Utilities are assessed in four areas,  reliability, safety, workforce development, and system improvement and planning. These  are very closely tied to the operations and the technical aspects of your electric utility.  The great news here is that Rocky Mountain scored 98 out of 100, which puts the electric  utility department here in the diamond category, which is the highest certification you can get.  Only 250 of our 2,000 utilities across the nation get this award. Beyond just that,  nationally Rocky Mountain has the second longest streak of diamond certification,  so it's something to be very proud of. I know that we utilize folks from your staff  to mentor other public power communities across the state in this area because you do so well, so  definitely something to be very proud of. The next award is the Smart Energy Provider,  very similar to RP3, but this one assesses utilities in the areas of customer service,  sustainability, distributed energy resources and renewable energy, and customer communication  and education. I believe this was Rocky Mountain's first go at applying for this award,  and this one does not have tiers, it's just you're certified or you're not, and Rocky Mountain's  utility department was awarded the certification from APPA. Rocky Mountain is one of 100 utilities  to gain this certification, and as you kind of commented at the beginning, I'm Chief Strategy  Officer and these two awards are near and dear to my heart because this is what we use to assess  our utilities across the state to ensure that they are well positioned to achieve our strategic  objectives, and I think it is very clear that you are. The last award, and definitely not  the least award, is the Safety Award of Excellence. This is meant to recognize  public power utilities who have an excellent track record with not only worker safety but  public safety. I'm very familiar with the folks who run your utility. I run the safety  and training program with Electricities, and once again, not only do you lead in performance  in this category, you help other public power communities across the state achieve  high rankings here as well. So all three of these are something to be very proud of.  I think it recognizes your staff's diligent efforts to be a leader not only within the  state but nationally.  Three, two, and one more.  Three, two, and one more.  Mr. Mayor. Yes, sir. Can I just make a comment? Yes, sir. No, I'll recognize you again some thoughts.  I just want to say to our energy resources, the entire staff, thank you for doing such a  great job and good job of being recognized for the excellent work that you do. Without you,  we wouldn't have our electric reliability that we have here, and when we do have a disruption,  you're joining on the spot to get it taken care of. I think our response rates are second to  none, and I can speak certainly for myself and I would imagine the rest of the Council  and Mayor, but thank you so much, and we appreciate every single one of you. Thank you.  Thank you, Councilman.  Okay, that brings us to item number eight on our agenda, which are petitions to be received  from the public. This is an opportunity for public comment, and we thank you all for coming  to the City Council meeting tonight to share your views, and we value all citizen input.  Speaker comments are limited to a maximum of three minutes during the public comment period,  and at the conclusion of three minutes, each speaker shall leave the podium. Comments must  be directed to the full board, not to an individual board member or staff member,  and although the board is interested in your comments, speakers should not expect any comments,  action, or deliberation from the board on any issue raised during the public comment period.  At the board's discretion, it may refer issues to the appropriate city officials or staff for  further investigation. If an organized group is present to speak on a common issue, please  designate one person to present the group's comments, which shall be limited to a maximum  of three minutes. At this time, I'd like to invite Mr. Reginald Bidam to the podium.  Hello, everyone. Good evening, Mayor, Councilmembers, and fellow citizens.  First, I want to take a moment to express sincere gratitude to our Rocky Mount sanitation teams,  yard waste crews, and the men and women of the Rocky Mount Police Department,  as well as the Inter-Resources. I didn't know they wanted to get that today, but  definitely wanted to add that to that. During a time that has not been easy for our city,  these employees have shown up, done their jobs with professionalism,  and continue to serve with pride. Their work often goes unseen, but it's deeply felt in  our neighborhoods. Their commitment is highly commendable, and they deserve our thanks.  Secondly, I want to speak briefly about the proposed data-turned discussions, if there are  any. While economic development is important, I have concerns about moving forward with a  project of this magnitude without fully addressing the strain it may place on our  local resources, particularly water, power, infrastructure, and environmental impact.  Our city must weigh not just short-term gains, but long-term sustainability and risks.  Growth should never come at the expense of health and stability of this community. For  those reasons, I stand in opposition, if it's being considered at all. Third, I encourage  this body to prioritize a comprehensive forward-looking plan for Rocky Mount.  I am in zoning. A big part of the work that I do is going to cities who are looking at  their comprehensive plan, along with their ordinances, their UDOs, and I do serve on  the Board of Adjustment for Edgecombe County, so there's a meeting for the county at six I  have to get to. But it is very important. As the county is doing their comprehensive plan,  I believe the next five years, just humbly urging. I'm not banging a gavel, not screaming,  but definitely think it's important for us to take a look at that.  Comprehensive plans are so important. Most importantly, it builds trust because people  can see where we're going, not just where we've been, and that leads to something equally  important, especially at this moment in our city's history. As audits, financial reviews,  and reports continue to come forward, I want to encourage both leadership and citizens to stay  grounded in truth, facts, data, transparency, not personalities, affiliations, or narratives,  and it starts with me as a taxpaying citizen. I speak as a homeowner in this city with  approximately 49% of homes in Rocky Mount according to the 2024 census. Obviously,  the latest data that we do have, I think 49% of people, they own their residence,  occupy homes in Rocky Mount. Those of us who have invested here, including myself and my  personal property, we maintain our property, support our neighborhoods, and contribute to the  tax base. That responsibility requires a lot from us. It's only fair that we expect the  same level of responsibility, accountability, and professionalism from our leadership.  Right now, many of us are facing questions and scrutiny from outside voices due to financial  charges of the city. At times like this, we need leadership. Leadership matters even more.  The way you conduct yourselves should reflect unity, discipline, and a commitment to restoring  public confidence. We all want Rocky Mount to succeed, especially me. We all want to be  proud of where we live. I am. And that starts with truth, accountability, and a shared  commitment to doing what is right for the future for the city. Thank you.  Thank you, Mr. Vynam. Thank you. I'd like to invite Tasha Aldridge to the podium.  Good afternoon. I have some concerns regarding the budget and some of the city finances,  in particular with the ARPA funds and downtown incentives, and particularly  the downtown major investment incentive program. The city received $11.5 million in ARPA  or COVID funds, and $2 million was allocated with the creation of the DMIIP grants.  By the end of the fiscal year 2023, the restricted cash had fallen to approximately  $360,000, and by the end of fiscal year 2024, only $160,000 remained. Meanwhile,  DMIIP grants continued to be approved, including grants for the Epstein project, May and Gorham,  and OIC Memorial Hospital. I'm asking for some transparency in where these funds down  to the dollar were spent and where they were allocated to fund the grants currently  for the 26-27 budget. You're asking us to fund them again. Specifically, I'm asking the city  and council to clarify the status of the grants as three are expired and has any determination  been made with the escape clauses. We have citizens and employees paying the price for  a breakdown in trust within our government and misuse of the funds. From the outside looking in  and removing all personal opinions, when you look at the items in black and white,  where is the breakdown since council and city management does not see actual financial reports?  They just see the spreadsheets. Who's responsible for communicating on these funds  that are gone? Who's responsible for the possible misrepresentation to the ones of you that have  to make these decisions? Where's the breakdown? Now I do want to end on a positive because I am  trying to change that approach. We might be bringing in concerns, but we're also bringing  some positive actions. I'm currently coming in. Thankfully, the chief is allowing us to  bring our therapy dog work in for the officers. That's a free service. Melissa from  the library with their programs are being cut. Her and I are touching base next week.  We're going to be bringing in our services free of charge to work with the kids for summer  programs. These are resources that are free for anybody that reaches out to use them.  And then additionally, we have our own source of grants that because we come in,  this opens up new doors, not only for police, the library, anywhere that we visit.  So don't just think we stand up here and bring concerns. We bring the concerns,  but we also try to bring some resolutions. Thank you. I'd like to invite Mary Berry to  the podium. Hi there. Okay. As a citizen, I have one concern. Since I've been coming to these  meetings since December, our group gets smaller every time. That is the public.  And I've talked to some of my friends that I made here to ask them, why aren't you coming  anymore? And their response is always, what good does it do? They don't listen to us anyway.  What can we do to make you listen to us?  Some of you sit on your phones or your little computer things the whole time we're talking.  I try to explain to them that at least if we come in and say something, there will be a record  somewhere that we disagreed with something you were doing.  But I hope all of you will start listening to us and our concerns because  you're supposed to be up there for us, not for yourselves, but for the public  to make this a better city, not a poorer one, and definitely not one that's going to have an AI  building out there that sucks up all our energy and our water and everything else.  It makes the environment unlivable. I really pray that you guys will start looking at  looking at the public the way you should, not just tolerating us.  That's all I got to say. Thank you, Ms. Berry.  I'd like to invite Rolanda Williams. I believe I've got the first name right. Rolanda. Thank you.  Good evening, guys. Good evening. Okay. I'm going to talk about the data center because,  like I said, I have a high stake in it. I'm looking into buying a house just in case.  I'm also looking into where it would be because I don't want to be anywhere near this thing.  Anybody that has kids, anybody that has grandkids, a sister or brother that lives here,  it's going to affect them. It might not be today. It might not be tomorrow,  but it will affect them. I wanted to tell you guys a little bit about some of the impacts on  some of the residents in other places. Like in Lake Tahoe, California, 49,000 residents  may potentially lose their electricity supplier because of a data center demand,  and they must find replacement power by May of 2027. That's next year. Residents affected  are served by Liberty utilities who get 75% of their electricity from Nevada Energy.  Rapid growth of these data centers in northern Nevada has increased competition for  electricity and grid capacity. Liberty has argued that the data center demand  is a significant factor. However, Nevada Energy disputes the claim that the data center is the  cause they're losing electricity, and yet this boom is the one broader pressure on the  electrical system and is causing it. Scott County, Virginia. There are five data centers  and are currently building more. There's currently an investigation by the Virginia  Health Department on potential pediatric cancer clusters. An RN in the county said she started  noticing a trend of pediatric cancer, started investigating, and states that there's been 11  cases of pediatric cancers in the city or the county in the past two years, which is very  unusual for a population of 21,000 people. And among them, these are very rare cancers.  Okay, and another thing. Protect our bald eagles. According to ARGCIS, there are two active eagle  nesting sites in Nash County, which are close to the recently annexed property. One in South  Edgecombe, two in Eastern Halifax County, and several in Pitt and many more towards the  coast. So they would be in danger of pollution if a data center does come here. According to the  Act, the Eagle and Protection Act, it is illegal to kill, harm, tamper with them or their nests.  Violations can lead to significant civil penalties. If pollution for data centers  lead to the death of a bald eagle, it could be considered a violation of this law.  It does not differentiate between intentional and unintentional harm. Penalties include civil  fines, legal action from wildlife protection agencies, and requirements to implement measures  to prevent further incidents. In summary, the effects on wildlife, habitat fragmentation,  which is the destruction of habitats and obstruction of corridors, air and light  pollution affects their health and disruption of natural behaviors, water pollution, ecosystem  alteration leading to potential declines in biodiversity, which is their food sources.  We do not want a data center. Thank you, Ms. Williams.  I'd like to invite Earl Jones to the podium.  Good afternoon, honorable citizens of Rocky Mount, my hometown. I'm Earl Jones, Ward 6.  Let me start off today with some positive impact, if I may.  One of my Facebook friends recently gifted me a U.S. flag,  and now that flag has found its purpose. I was going to talk about the flag at City Lake.  I knew that it was vandalized, but it seemed like it helped solve that problem  and have a purpose. I just ask that by July 4th, can we please have that completed  for the citizens? That would mean a lot. I gifted a flag to the mayor.  Mayor, I would appreciate it if you would utilize that flag for the  fire museum across the street. Can you utilize it for the fire museum, if not for City Lake?  We will make sure it has an honorable purpose.  Thank you. I appreciate that. I offer it to the citizens of Rocky Mount.  My second point tonight is the budget. The budget is a tool used for forecasting  and planning revenues and expenditures, but in my mind, cash is king.  Cash is king, and it's hell without cash. Okay? We are broke and heading in the wrong direction.  You can have all the budgets in the world, but at the end of the day,  if you have a negative cash balance, who or what gets paid first?  First, debt service, employees, more grants when they've already been funded once,  and what about our refunds for the double utility billing in December?  That has to be budgeted as well. I'm sure there's issues.  Please know that the citizens of Rocky Mount are not gold to the snake oil  you're trying to sell. Not for one minute. We are well-informed, we're engaged,  and we're not afraid to speak truth. I recall the sage words of the young man  that recently spoke in College of Cowards from this very podium. His words were,  if you're not with us, you're against us, and we'll see how that's going to turn out real  soon. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Jones. I'd like to invite Nellene Martin to the podium.  Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council and residents of Rocky Mount.  I reside in Ward 7 now, and so I come to talk to y'all about Love Day, which is coming up.  It's our fourth year, and really I want to thank the city councilmen that came out  and walked their wards the first year that we started and got to know the residents  in their ward. With everything going on right now, I think it's time to bring the walk back,  because I think it's very important that the residents and our city councilmen kind of  mend some fences, and I think that that is very important, because when I moved here in 1984,  we were the city on the rise. Signs used to be out there saying,  city on the rise, and right now there's just so much going on, and so I'm looking forward to  Love Day, which is August the first, so that we can spread some love and kind of patch up some  things in our city. My concern is I love Rocky Mount. That's why I do Love Day, and I did  love walk, because this was the only place I knew after leaving D.C. that made me feel like  home, and I want it to continue to feel like home. This is a beautiful city. I want to thank  y'all for the job that y'all are doing, because if nobody else tell y'all, I appreciate y'all  in spite of all of our obstacles and our battles. This is home, and that's all I got.  Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Martin. I'd like to invite Frankie Black to the podium.  Good evening, Mr. Mayor. Good evening. Councilman.  Well, here we are again. You know, for months the citizens have been asking questions  about spending and budgets and utilities and all the increases, and we've never gotten any  real answers, have we? We don't have anything here that gives us transparency, I guess.  That's a big word, isn't it? We get taxes. We get increases, but we don't really get  firm answers. It seems that a government that is confident in its decisions should not be  afraid of questions. We should be able to come up here, and we should be able to ask you questions,  and we should be able to have an open forum. There should be some allowances for scrutiny,  but that doesn't seem to happen. Taxpayers are willing to pay the money,  but we don't get anything back. It's kind of like talking to a fence post,  but we're told we're to pay, but we never get real answers, do we? So tonight I want to ask  the council if you're going to commit to the answers that the citizens ask. It doesn't  seem like we have greater financial transparency. Somewhere along the line we find out that there's  money being spent. There has been money spent. There's been money that's been  misappropriated. We don't know who did it, although there's a lot of names that are spent  out there, yet nobody's been prosecuted. That's a pretty nice thing to do for a lot of money,  isn't it? The citizens of Rocky Mountain fund this government. They fund you. They pay you.  We're not your enemies, are we? We're not your enemies. We're your employer. So when an employer  asks you a question you're supposed to answer. I've never had somebody work for me that didn't  answer my question. It's a pretty hard thing. So I asked tonight, do you think that's a  possibility? Do you think you can answer the people that you work for? Do you think there's  a possibility of ever having an open forum? Is that possible? Is that ever going to be possible  to sit down and face your bosses and be honest and truthful? That's all I ask.  Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Black.  This time moves on to item number nine on the agenda, which is consent agenda. This time  I will receive a motion to approve the consent agenda as written to be inclusive of the tax  releases, the temporary street closures, adopt the ordinances and resolutions, and approve the  lease agreement and authorize the mayor to execute on behalf of the city. Is there a motion?  I'm sorry. I'll open it for discussion, Councilman Knight. Was there a motion?  Yes. Is there a second? Second. Seconded by Councilman Harris. Councilman Knight,  I'll recognize you. Okay. I was looking at item number two, request for  the main street to be closed, and I was trying to find out from the employee if that was  where the businesses are busting the gut and B and D cigar bar.  Can you speak to that?  No, I have the answer. Okay. Previous they had a concern because it was saying about  those who was patronized, the business that couldn't get there, but my understanding they  are participating in this one now, so it opposed no problem. Thank you. Thank you.  Any other comments? Discussion? Hearing none, I have a motion and a second. All in favor,  please say aye. Aye. All opposed? Motion passes. Item number nine passes. Item 10 is  consideration of resolution to permanently close Pine Haven Drive between Evergreen Road and  Edward Street. Public hearing was held on March 23rd of 2026. This time I'll receive  a motion to adopt resolution to permanently close that street, and I believe that's just  a paper street as they call it, right? It's not paved. That is correct. That's the same thing  that we discussed a few months ago. Is there a motion? So moved. Motion made by Councilman  Harris. Is there a second? Second. Second, made by Councilman Daltridge. Any need for  discussion? Hearing none, all in favor, please say aye. Aye. All opposed? Like sign.  Item number 11 is consideration of the fiscal year 2025-2026 budget ordinance amending  appropriating $10,000 to the general fund for the first Friday market. The budget  amendment appropriates a donation received from Downtown Renaissance Inc. to fund the event. No  additional city funds are required. Is there a motion to adopt the budget ordinance amendment?  So moved. Motion made by Councilman Nye. Is there a second? Second, made by Councilman  Blackwell. Is there a need for discussion? Hearing none, all in favor, please say aye.  All opposed? Like sign. Motion carries. Item 12 is consideration of the fiscal year 2025-2026  project ordinance amendment for occupancy tax contribution appropriating $425,000  from the occupancy tax fund for transfer to the general fund. Funds received from the city  Rocky Mountain portion of the Nash County occupancy tax revenues that are dedicated for  capital improvement projects related to tourism development in Nash County currently used to  cover debt service associated with the Imperial Center. Is there a motion to adopt the project  ordinance amendment? So moved. Motion made by Councilman Daltridge. There was a second  by Councilman Blackwell. Is there a need for discussion? Hearing none, all in favor, please  say aye. All opposed? Like sign. Item 13 is consideration of the following project ordinances  for fiscal year 2026. Transfers available balances and encumbrances on the current  annual operating budget to establish multiple year funds for qualifying capital projects.  It's the general capital development fund project fund for 1.9 million dollars and change  for previously ordered fire apparatus. Electric capital development project fund  $3,096,335 for improvements to point of delivery stations. $781,072 for improvements  to substation 10. $250,000 for purchase of an engineering and staking software package.  $153,800 for improvements to the energy resources generators. The water capital development  project fund of $145,340 for delivery and installation of a raw water pump.  Sewer capital development project fund $126,960 for capital engineering services.  $1,167,690 for a screw pump replacement. $773,893 for the old mill road pump station.  These amendments do not impact overall operating appropriations or increases to actual expenditures  with respect to current cash flow projections. At this time I'll receive a motion to adopt  the project ordinances as read. So moved. Motion was made by Councilman T.J. Walker-Harris,  seconded by Councilman Daltrich. Is there a need for discussion? Hearing none,  all in favor please say aye. Aye. All opposed like sign.  Item 14 is consideration of fiscal year 2025-2026 budget ordinance amendment appropriating  funds and self-insurance internal service fund in the amount of $6,455,000.  It covers health and dental insurance claims by the city in the current fiscal year.  Submitment does not increase current cash flow projections with respect to expenditures.  Is there a motion to adopt the ordinance? So moved. Motion made by Councilman T.J. Walker-Harris.  Is there a second? Second. Seconded by Councilman Tom Harris. Is there a need for discussion?  Hearing none, all in favor please say aye. Aye. All opposed like sign.  Motion carries. Item 15 is consideration of fiscal year 2025-2026 budget ordinance  amendment to transfer $200,000 in the general fund mayor and council contingency to the  economic development fund. The grant project ordinance amendment for downtown redevelopment  appropriating $2,714,069 to the economic development fund for downtown major investment  incentive program grants. Transferring these funds to the economic development fund will  ensure that the award distributions will be made in accordance with the terms of the  agreements or amended agreements based on the schedules proposed by the grant recipients  and approved by city council. At this time I will note that there is a recusal on file here  for Councilman Knight and Councilman Blackwell on this particular matter. I will receive a  motion to adopt the budget ordinance amendment and to adopt the project ordinance amendment.  They are asked to be excused. Councilman Robertson is asked to be excused. I will  need council to vote on that. Is there a motion and a second to excuse Councilman  Robertson from this vote? So moved. All right is there a second? Second. Second  All those in favor of excusing Councilman Robertson from this vote please say aye.  All opposed? Show of hands on the opposition. Okay motion carries you're excused Councilman  Robertson from this vote. I have a motion do I have a motion and a second? I do. All right  huh I'm sorry okay break it up yes I know that I've already I've already stated the recusal  I've got a motion and a second on the on the matter Councilman Robertson is asked to be excused  that means that Councilman Jabaris-Walker Councilman Lynch-Daltridge Councilman Tom  Harris and Councilman TJ Walker will be voting is that correct oh there was a tie vote  on the on the excusal oh I'm sorry I didn't realize there was a tie okay well Councilman  Robertson I believe that you need to vote for that so I am not going to vote in favor of  your excusing you so that being said we now have five people voting in this next round  there's a motion to adopt the budget ordinance amendment and the project ordinance amendment  all those in favor please say aye  all right I'm sorry do I have a motion in a second I thought it did do I not  oh never made a motion I need a motion and a second to adopt the project ordinance amendment  and to adopt the project ordinance amendment I have recusals from Councilmembers Knight and  Blackwell is there a motion to adopt these budget ordinances and the project ordinance  I just have a question I don't yes sir Councilman TJ Walker in reference to the  recusal that was asked by Councilman Charles Robertson can we get an explanation for that  because you're happy to do that he didn't ask for a recusal he can't recuse himself on the  matter he's not gonna he's not party to the transaction he was asking for an excuse  to be excused from the vote which requires council vote that would allow him just not  to be registered as voting one way or the other I think it's important that every member  of council if they are entitled to vote to be able to register that vote and the affirmative  or the negative thank that's the reason for my vote I can't speak to the other two  so with that said do I have a motion to adopt the project ordinance and to adopt the project  ordinance yes so moved sir second second second made by Councilman Javaris Walker  motion made by Councilman Lodge Daltridge all in favor please say aye all opposed okay  Councilman Robertson I recognize you so with this I've been always been for downtown development  and for us to develop our downtown I asked some questions regarding this how it's going to  return on investment how it's going to affect our constituents and you know I didn't receive  that information on the ROI as of yet also regarding the things that we have in this budget  we have that we're going to raise people taxes we have we're going to raise the  gas by 30 percent is really tough to do that and vote for this without the pertinent  information that I requested and so I support all of these projects but I cannot vote for it  and also we're still on the audit so until the audit comes back I feel that this should be  tabled until the audit comes back regarding grants and so those are the reasons that I  cannot support it but I definitely support all investors that have come to our town  and investing in our downtown thank you Councilman Robertson any other comment  yes sir Councilman TJ Walker thank you Mayor just a question regarding this economic  development fund will this be the fund we use for all investment pertaining to  economic development that the city has to or has an appropriation towards  or what are the parameters around this new fund the short answer is yes when we had our  budget conversations previously at the budget workshops we stated that it would be ideal  for the city moving forward to have a multi-year fund that would address any project that  would span over a 12-month period and the finance director could be here to answer  any other questions if that's not suffice thank you yes sir Councilman Harris I'll recognize you  thank you Mayor Manager Daniels people have said this is double dip in and we're paying  twice could you elaborate a little bit on what people were saying and what we're actually doing  not quite sure what the reference to double dipping is I'll let Cheryl come up here to  address the exact financing but to my knowledge no funds from the city have been dispersed  for the multiple projects that's out of the one the Duke's property which I believe they  are close to being about 80 done the rest of them the memorial project they did receive  state funding but no city funding has been dispersed at this point in the past I think  there was mentioned about some ARPA funding in a previous administration all the details for  all of the funding that the city has dispersed has been in our previous audits that are  available online for my form of transparency as well as I think one citizen mentioned tonight  about some type of appropriation of funds but all of that stuff has been addressed in the  state auditor's report which is also available online at the state auditor's website Cheryl yes  um Mr. Daniels basically answered my question um well what I know of it other than um the  ARPA the ARPA funds we um we we can provide a list of how the ARPA funds were you know were  listed where um were spent um when these projects were originally budgeted I wasn't here  at the time but there may have been an expectation that those funds would still be  available um but those times those funds you know are time were time sensitive so um I think  once we can we get the list of um of how those ARPA funds were spent and they've probably been  provided at some point but we'll um we'll you know come back with that list um it will show  where the ARPA funds were spent um the situation we're in now is that there are um for some  of these projects um the budget when when the um it's my understanding that  when some of the budget was reduced um this fiscal year because of our financial situation  that some of these funds were cut from these projects so this is really you know to add  those funds back because we've already made commitment um to those projects and to put  them in a multi-year fund so that this doesn't happen again um that if the the projects take  longer than you know another year that they will be in a multi-year fund and the funds  would be available and I think that provides a deeper level of transparency from an accounting  standpoint additionally one of the things that I uncovered when I became manager is that even  though something had been budgeted there were not specific funds tied to that so this action  that I hope that council takes today will address that concern moving forward.  Mr. Mayor. Yes sir. Councilman Daltridge. So similar to what we did we've done previously  tonight Ms. Spivey with the 25-26 funds moving forward for different projects and so forth  with the grants in the past they should have been done that way in the past because they  were committed not paid for within that physical year and so we should have done  a similar thing in previous years to move those funds forward is that an incorrect statement?  You are correct so that is a situation where you know we're trying to rectify with this  meeting was in that projects that have been approved or have you know have commitments  that if we don't do this the money goes away you know because an annual budget is only good  for a year so the so it's only good you know when June 30 comes in you know by July  July 1 anything that's not appropriated in a multi-year fund it be it can't be spent for  that purpose unless it's re-budgeted so you know that's the that's the purpose of when we  went into some of these projects and the expectation may have been that it would take  that take longer than a year and some of the things because of supply chain you know we've  just things that used to not take over a year to obtain it takes over a year now and  that's so that's when we talk about the ones that have already been approved and you know and  then in addition to that that's really what we're trying to make sure that if we've approved  budget for something and it should have you know been in a multi-year fund that we get it  in a multi-year fund rather than the funding running out. And just an added statement and  this is more of a statement not anything to question anything Ms. Spivey or Mr. Manager  but when we talked about this I think at the committee of the whole earlier this month made  the statement that you know these grants were committed prior to the knowledge of our financial  situation and from from my perspective I understand the questions with the grants the  financial piece of the grants I get it feel that way but as a steward of the of the city  of Rocky Mount you've got to look at you can't just look at one particular piece you've got  to look at the whole piece and part of this piece is also if regardless of whether in a  contract it says you can get out of it or not my experience both prior to be a city council  person while I'm on the city council litigation is very is very high risk and  this city we spend a lot on legal fees when we could be spending it for other things  and out of the opinion that we would spend more in legal fees if we decided not to  I'll go with these pre-approved previously approved items so I want the public  to be aware of that because it's a real concern it's not a cop-out it is a it's real and I  think everybody needs to consider that as well I just want to make that statement thank you  any other comments on this matter I have a motion and a second all in favor please  say aye aye all opposed like sign all right the ayes have it item 16 is consideration of  the fiscal year 2026 2027 budget ordinance and amendments to fees and charges fiscal year 2026  2027 budget ordinance established appropriations for 2026 2027 and sets the city property tax rate  of 69 cents per hundred of a taxable assessed value seven cents more than the current rate  b amendments to fees and charges I'm not going to read those out but I will let it as written  department of development services and item 2 department of energy resources this time I  will receive a motion to adopt the fiscal year 2026 2027 budget ordinance adopt the resolution  amending fees and charges listed above and adopt ordinance amending the gas rates listed above  is there a motion so moved motion made by councilman Blackwell is there a second  second made by councilman Knight is there a need for discussion yes councilman Robertson  I'll recognize you first I want to um thank the city manager I want to thank the staff  for producing a balanced budget that helps stabilize the city um finances because that's  no small task however it's the council's job it's us the body that um we have to produce a  budget that works for the people who hired us and one that grows the city because I feel we  have asked residents for way to do more we're giving them less and it's been years since  Rocky Mount had a comprehensive plan to guide our future I think 2003 is the last time we had  a plan we started one we spent hundreds of thousands of dollars I think over $400,000  in taxpayers money then we stopped and Joseph our development service director he told us that  we could finish the plan for approximately $125,000 but this council we chose to say not now  but maybe later miss Sue Perry miss Sue Perry one of the bright minds she came here our last  council meeting and she passionately explained why Rocky Mount needs a need a plan she helped  Sue Perry she helped draw a map right a ward map because ward one two and three we lost population  and she laid out every reason why planning matters to this body and the people you know  and it's it hurts me that we haven't budgeted to do a comprehensive plan knowing all of this  and if we continue down this road we probably going to need Sue Perry again to come help us  draw another map as we lose more population people have told us Charles you got to go  along with the program you got to raise taxes you got to raise utility bills but sometimes I  feel that you you have to fix the broken system instead of simply charging people more  to support it and this city council this condition study right here right it identifies serious  problems the city we pray pay for this study and then identify serious problems in our  neighborhood with aging houses high poverty rates right blight low household incomes  the need for workforce and economic development and we know these issues for years I sat in  audience with you years ago when we had over 100 million dollars in the general fund  and we talked about 14 underserved communities and looking at the numbers today how have those  communities improved how does this 270 million dollar budget help the least of the in this  of the in this city and I don't want to cut organizations they say you know it's organizations  with the city that help struggling families and I want to cut them no I want to make them  effective as possible I want us not to just have organizations and names but that we put in the  budget money so they can do the work that they've done and in this budget there's no  money for those organizations keeping people employed without giving them resources that's  that's just a show this budget is primarily a stabilization budget it helps stabilize our  finances but it doesn't plant enough seeds for us to grow our way and find solutions of us  growing right the budget is where the council priorities what we care about and in this budget  I don't see money for housing that makes significant investment in addressing blight  neighborhoods new resources for coal enforcement demolition neighborhood revitalization as a result  many of our residents in our ward ward one two and three they're going to live beside houses  that's blighted that's attract crime and lower their property value and I asked repeatedly about  budget and collections for Mrs. Haller come back before the council and tell us exactly  what she needs to modernize our technology in the building because when I first came on this  council one of the biggest things was utilities utilities getting calls from utilities so for  years I've been paying thousands of dollars each month for years Mrs. Haller will tell you I've  been calling her we've been talking about updating and modernizing our utility department  and in this budget I asked the CIS infinity system we haven't put money in that for her  and then when I talked to her back she said she needs 500,000 you know to update it so we  don't have another situation where utility bills we didn't budget it this in the budget  a budget is more than just numbers and when I look at this budget I do not see funding funding  to complete our comprehensive plan I do not see a major major push for coal enforcement I  do not see enough resources redirecting in our most distressed neighborhoods to put houses  back on the tax rolls and to get more utilities when we put those houses back on the tax rolls  what I do see is higher taxes higher gas rates being pushed on the citizens that's already  carrying a heavy burden for these those reasons I myself cannot support this budget but I  think council I think the um city manager and the staff are putting it together  thank you councilman um Mr. Manager I will recognize and I'll recognize you councilman after  I would just like to remind council that during the budget workshop council agreed to continue  with the comprehensive plan the goal was to fill one of our vacant planning positions and  then work and accomplish that plan in-house as a cost saving mechanism the council did instruct  staff to move forward with the comprehensive plan just to do it in-house councilman T.J.  Walker I'll recognize you the councilman Blackwell thank you mayor and I will not  labor long but a couple years ago I specifically recommended that we raise taxes  seven cent and it was laughed at amongst this council and at the time we were in a far greater  financial situation but I made a recommendation just looking at the trend of our spending  and where we would be a couple years later with foresight and now where we are in our  economy and how detrimental it is for people just to afford daily living not just bills  I won't be able to support it but I do thank the staff and team for pulling us out of  the major deficit we were in but I do feel that we're able to move forward  with a lesser increase on our property taxes if possible but I understand the majority rules  and so I do and still firmly believe that the city is headed in the financial direction that  we need to be I just personally right now I feel it's something we should have did a couple  of years ago but thank you thank you councilman councilman Blackwell thank you thank you so much  I've been consistent and that's why I support this this budget as it's presented I've been  consistent in my concerns and along with councilman Knight councilman joiner before  in the critiques that we had about the previous administration that spent our money down  without regard to the details of how it got spent of which eight hundred thousand dollars  was allocated without coming before the city council to revise the the comprehensive plan  without updates on the personnel plan to increase salaries without being approved  or studied we have approved over the years numbers of plans we've studied  we have a pathway forward we know how to do it we've been doing it I think it's also inaccurate  to create a perception that Rocky Mount is not successful of what we are not good at doing  we're good at investing the money we're good at creating the plans we're not good at  documenting our success and telling the story interesting to me that we have invested millions  upon millions of dollars in overlooked underestimated communities that some people  have intentionally disinvested other people have come in and given everything they have  to live in neighborhoods that are beautiful neighborhoods they're good citizens they do  all that they can and we as a council submitted plans and opportunities to leverage their  investment continually since we created something called council initiatives and we created programs  that targeted those inner city communities and we've been consistently talked about how we don't  need grants and now we're talking about once we can't afford them how we need to get them  back again I just heard a comment about not supporting housing well we just had an option  in number 15 which I could not vote on three out of those four projects are housing projects  and they are downtown and and what no one wants to discuss because we don't document it well  is that we're bringing properties that were once benign and non-productive into tax until  the tax roll and we're creating utilities we don't ever compare how our utility business has  grown because properties are now occupied that were once dormant we don't talk about  how we save money for people and households because we don't document very well the great  investments that we make in improving HVAC and roofs and windows and doors we have spent  millions of dollars and we got millions more to go that we need I support this this program  budget that our staff has worked hard on because they cut and they've had to increase at the same  time Rocky Mountain is still part of North Carolina North Carolina still part of America  and the same global impacts that are taking place across the world are taking place in  Rocky Mountain too the city is not responsible for all of that but we got to do our part  and I support this budget as it's presented thank you councilman I'll recognize your  councilman Harris and then councilman Joe Morris Walker thank you mayor I just want  to remind everybody of a couple of things and I'm a person of little words I don't try to  keep my comments brief we are working with the LGC and I commend the staff  in regards to how we have accomplished various objectives are we out of the woods no  but we are certainly beginning to see the edge line  the 25 and the 26 budgets combined I was the only one to vote against those budgets  I have said initially that I was going to vote against the 27 budget  but taking a look at the audit taking a look at what's happening in Raleigh with the Senate bill  we don't know what the legislature is going to finally do  I don't know that's a Volkswagen in the tunnel coming my way or it was a freight train coming  my way but unfortunately we have got the plan for the future  we need to build up the unreserved cash balance our policy is 10% it's going to take  years to get to that 10% level but we have some contingencies that the auditor presented  to us that we have got to remove those from the comprehensive audit report in the years to come  I'm going to vote for the budget but I'm going to vote knowing that we have got  people in the finance department who are keeping their eye on the checkbook  who are working in tandem with our friends in Raleigh at the LGC  and I'm hoping that when they next meet in front of the LGC in July maybe they will  put some of their controls off of us controls being personal meetings month to month  but they're going to continue to see because we're going to continue to send them monthly  results. We have got to collectively work together and during various budget discussions  we said come January if our cash flow is better than what's projected we can amend the budget by  various budget ordinances and do some things. So this budget once approved doesn't mean  it's closed forever. We can do some things but let's see how we stand come January.  Thank you Mr. Mayor. Thank you. I'll recognize your Councilman Javaris Walker.  Thank you Mayor. One thing I'll say is I support the budget overall. I believe it's a very solid  budget and I think it addressed most needs and helped the city move forward in the right  direction. However I think the property taxing piece is what I struggle with only because I  know last year when we did pass the one last year I go and have award me with maybe  60 to 70 people and I tell them why I voted for the increase and most of them they understood  so I tell them in the next time the next time this come around I could not support a property  tax increase so I just got to keep my word and I got to as I think the budget is very great  staff has done good but I just got to say no to the property tax piece of it so that's my  piece. Any other discussion? Yes Councilman Knight. Yes Mayor, Councilmembers, staff.  First of all I'd like to thank you all for the hard work that you all have been doing  during this difficult time. We have had some good days and some difficult days.  When I got here in 2003 there were many communities and neighborhoods that were  underserved and resources not going into those communities and since then we have seen major  improvements. Yeah it's funny but it's not funny to me.  Stay focused my brother, stay focused. Yeah but what I need is when people are doing an outburst  for your room to be under control but I've seen a lot of changes from streets that were not paved,  being paved, dirt streets, sidewalks, dilapidated homes, commercial property in residential areas  that have been demolished. Now houses now are there now.  Last year we went through the budget and we had some differences on revenue neutral and what to  set the tax rate at after the reevaluation from Nash and Edgecomb counties and we did reduce it.  So I'd like to thank my fellow council members, the ones that are going to support the budget  because I know it's hard the tax increase and the rate increases.  Since I've been here I've made some promises to my constituents, promises that I did not see  down the line that I would have to change my mind and to be honest with my constituents  and to show them and to tell them why I changed my mind and why it is beneficial for  this community. You know it takes guts to do that. Once you make a promise you don't want  to break it but if you have that communication with your constituents and they're able to see  what you're showing them that's going to be positive for the city  that's not hard to do. On April the 30th there was a letter and some members signed it  who are now saying that they are in favor of these  services. One was reduce community and housing development to hood minima, provide the floor.  You know they're saying they want more in housing. Reduce timber relation to two staff  members following the direction of the director's vacancy.  Hammer relation works with neighborhood associations and neighborhood presidents.  Move downtown development, just get rid of it, move it to assistant city manager  which we know downtown is the core of our city and it's important to our city  and so now it seems it's talking out of both sides of their mouths but  says differently and so I'm going to support the budget due to the fact that  the financial situation that we're in and we are improving those financial situations  but in spite of that two years of calling out things that were not in our policies,  in our procedures, being laughed at, talked about. When challenged Keith Rogers,  the human resource director would not give us the comprehensive plan. Hiring  employees at Six Figures with made up job descriptions and job titles. It's all documented  but anyway I just want to say that I do support it. I do support what we're doing  and the last note and I'm done Mayor, yeah we're going to say Superica, we're going to need  Superica, we're going to need her one more time because of the strong wind blowing  of people that don't know that's naive and white supremacists who want to take  Rocky Mount back, they want to take Rocky Mount back.  When Rocky Mount was still with- I'm sorry, excuse me.  So we are in a state where some people want to see Rocky Mount taken back  to where people with voter suppression they could not vote  and Sue Perry, Naomi Green, Louis Turner, many of those stood. Thank you and God bless you.  That's the kind of stuff that was happening then and it's happening now  and so we're going to need Sue Perry one more time to stand with us  to fight this. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion on the budget?  Mr. Mayor, I want to make this quick because I owe somebody an apology. I want to thank the  manager and all of his direct reports and department heads because they were very much  involved in the creation of this new budget and I just wanted to say thank you all.  Councilman Blackwell, do you want to speak? Oh, I'm sorry.  Any further discussion? Hearing none, all in favor, please say aye. Aye. All opposed? Aye.  Show of hands on the opposition. Okay, budget passes. With that, I now adjourn to the city  council meeting. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You know, I'm sorry. That was the big item.  My apologies to everybody. We've had a lot of commotion here. My apologies.  Item 17 is consideration of the bid for the annual audit services for Malden and Jenkins, LLC,  for a three-year contract totaling $465,000 fiscal year 2027, $150,000 fiscal year 28,  be $155,000 and fiscal year 29, be $160,000. Annual contracts will be brought to city  council for approval pursuant to the LGC requirements. I need a motion to award the  bid to Malden and Jenkins. Is there a motion? So moved. The motion was made by Councilman  Harris. Is there a second? Second. Councilman T.J. Walker. Is there a need for discussion?  Hearing none, all in favor, please say aye. Aye. All opposed? Like sign. Item 18 is  consideration of the renewal of the city of Rocky Mountains Motorola Service Agreement.  It's a two-year agreement. Approximately $823,007 per year will be paid monthly  installments of $68,583.90. Looking for a motion to approve the agreement and authorize  the mayor to execute on behalf of the city. Is there a motion? So moved. Motion made by  Councilman Harris. Is there a second? Second. Seconded by Councilman Javaris Walker. Is  there a need for discussion? Hearing none, all in favor, please say aye. Aye. All opposed?  Like sign. Item 19 is consideration of the insurance policy renewal with Surrey Insurance for  property and casualty insurance services for fiscal year 2027. The overall cost for fiscal  year 2027 is $2,242,279.98. That is a 7% overall reduction from fiscal year 2026.  Is there a motion to approve the insurance policy renewal? So moved. Motion made by  Councilman Daltridge. Is there a second? Second. Seconded by Councilman Harris. Is  there a need for discussion? Mr. Mayor. Yes, sir. Councilman Daltridge. I want to thank Mr.  Baum for working on this. And I'm glad this, although it's an expense, but it's a necessary  expense. For the end, on a good note, this is a 7% reduction. So thank you very much. And  to the staff, we heard about safety earlier. And I don't think we would have this reduction  unless it was for the staff. So thank you. Any further conversation? All in favor, please say  aye. Aye. All opposed? Like sign. This time, there's an appointment for the Upper Coastal  Plain Council with Governance. Who are we nominating today? I'd like to nominate Tom  Harris if he's available. Second. Motion has been made. There's been a second.  Are there any other nominations? Hearing none, all in favor of appointing Tom Harris as the  Upper Coastal Plain Councilor of Government Representative from City of Rocky Mountain,  please say aye. Aye. All opposed? Like sign. With that, I am adjourning. Mr. Mayor.