 Yeah, we do. We have four.  Okay.  Okay.  Good. And we have, who's going to manage this? Who's going to manage the whole team budget?  Yeah. Tiana is going to scribe on the whiteboard. CJ is going to write on the document.  Okay. And I thought at first I'd just open it up and if there's any conversation  or questions about previous budget that maybe didn't get answered or coupled up.  And speak to that and then roll into the changes.  Okay.  No time for any of this.  I tried running Monday, and I made it to the corner house where Elphaba is.  Didn't make it far.  Really?  Yeah.  But I'm going to work my way up.  Yeah.  If you see that out of me, you might want to look behind me to make sure.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I said June 1st was the day I was going to start.  So was it going to be July 1st next month?  We'll see.  Oh, yeah, we are in June.  It's June 1st.  Yeah, sorry.  I'll be walking in April and riding my bike.  I just realized he's my neighbor.  Oh.  Yeah.  Let me tell you a story.  I was riding my bike with my kids.  Then the U-turn.  We both started staring at each other for a little while.  We talked for like an hour.  I was like, do you think I'm my neighbor?  I said, no.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I got home.  I told my wife, I said, you'll never believe who I am until you die.  I said, no.  I said, no.  I said, no.  I said, no.  I said, no.  I said, no.  I got home.  I was like, I told my wife, I said, you'll never believe who I am until you die.  We got a lot of stuff coming out.  That's what the conversations are.  About  I  Probably committed the whole meeting back into section to discuss budget. I don't know if we've recessed it or not, but anyway  All right. Well, then I'll call for  So I thought what we do, I think the plan is to come back and make any changes to the budget  Elton and his team are going to be service scribes to come up with proposed changes to the budget that's presented  And then we're going to have to figure out how we're going to find the money to maintain the budget-neutral position that the manager and his team presented  But before we do that, I think it would be appropriate to just ask if there's any questions anyone has about the budget that's presented  Maybe something bubbled up over the last week in your mind that you want some clarification on and this would be a great time to get into that  So questions regarding the building and collection  She was not, but if you have any questions, you could, you know, state your question now  We can take notes and then I'll be sure that the whole department gets a watching  So we could likely get you a response back by the end of the day if not soon  If you want to just ask those questions and take those notes, or feel free to email them directly  Also, the budget has to stand. How much is going back into the general fund?  I'm not sure I understand  So is any, you never budget it so money is going to go back to rebuild the fund, the general fund?  Is any money going back to the general fund?  Technically, you cannot budget to go towards the fund balance  You have to have a balanced budget and if there are savings throughout the year, that savings goes back to the fund balance  But technically, you cannot budget to go towards fund balance  So do you think that we're going to have a fund balance at the end of the 2017 budget?  It will depend, really, where we stand at the end of this current year that we're in now  But then when we go through that audit process, the auditors will let us know where we are with regards to our fund balance  And then that will be our starting point for the current year  But as it stands now, we have a balanced budget and we hope to have savings throughout the year  So we expect the funds to build up in front  So right now, I don't know whether we will have fund balance or not, but that's the purpose of the audit  So I think we can generally say that our goal is to spend less money than we take in  That is correct  And I will say the auditors will be present at our upcoming council meeting on modern individuals  And they will go over the financial funds that we will have to present to the local government condition  That will be the appropriate time to ask them the regular  Any other questions from where we were? Where we left off?  If not, let's move on to the other  We left that meeting with several items and the board had made some notes  And so I'll just go over them  So items noted for review in the addition for the 27 budget include revisit comprehensive plan funding  That was made by Councilman Robertson  In addition to funding the budget of Robertson, located $50,000 for rescue equipment  And the fire department that was applied by Councilman Dothridge  And see if the spot will find funding for two support vehicles for a fire department at $80,000 each  Those were the notes from where we left off in the last meeting  And I think maybe we just got to put those up on the board  Unless the vote wants to remove those  The city manager had a request really as it related to the May and Golden building  Does everybody have a copy of this?  Yes, yes  So I don't need to read it line to line  And of course the Tepstein building  So the impact to the budget 27 for the May and Golden building looks like it's $277,000  That's all for the current fiscal year, right?  Yep  Right  No, the current fiscal year for 27 would be $97,000, right?  Mr. Rancher?  For the  Because the fiscal year will begin July 27, so  Correct  So in the quarter of 1, you're looking at $86,000  Plus  And then 37, so the total for May and Golden  You'll be looking at $554,678 for the  For the 27, up until June 30 of  Correct, for the May and Golden building  Okay  And for the  And then residual after that would be, just to be clear for everybody, is  97 plus 277, that's an additional 300  And call it $80,000-ish round numbers  Correct  And for the Epsley, you're looking at 181 for that building  And the current fiscal year?  For 27 that we're looking at  And the current fiscal year, 27 that were proposed, proposed 27  Correct  Okay, and then I don't know if we got any email requests for expense reductions  We only had one from Council Member Harris  And he wanted to try to find funding for the Christmas program  And his recommendation was to remove that from Council's travel  We do have some other mechanisms, if I was correct, that was from Council Member Harris  Okay  All right  And so everybody that's on the same page  In order to do the Christmas program, you'll be looking at on average about $17,000  Plus the overtime for police and fire  So I would just say your round number is about $20,000  $20,000  Yep  Okay  Now, if we manage to do that  A week in a tight timeline to pull it all together  We could do it  If it was a approved initiative budget  It takes us several months to get all the different participants  But that would be a normal process  We could do that  My recommendation would be to take it from another source  Because I think Council's travel was already kind of very limited  But again, if we are to do it, it would be about $20,000  Okay  Councilman Walker  So I know when you done the parks and rec, I was out  I guess I think I'll send an email about  With some accounts, even when we done one  How much would that be?  Each camp on average is about $30,000 to $40,000 per site  Right now, one of the sites is already used  Not for the city, but I think some community members and maybe some outside funding  I had one of the sites taken from the Rocky Mountain Academy  But the other two sites would be Booker T as well as South Rocky Mountain  And right now they are open  We're just not actively running camps  So kids can go there and utilize the facility  But we don't have staffing for the actual camp administration  So every week they do pay to go to those camps, correct?  For the summer camps, that is correct  Yep  But they don't fully cover the cost  I would say we don't do cost recovery in a lot of our program efforts  I think the weekly fee for Rocky Mountain Residence right now is $50  Whereas some of the other camps across the city range up north of $150  So I don't know if there are any other community initiatives to make up some of these gaps  I know, for instance, there's been a private group that have found the funding for UCM  And the Bassett School and the homeless shelter  As well as Juneteenth is also being led, the community support  So those events continue on  I don't know if you've heard about that  Yeah, I have not heard of any other community groups picking up any of the major events that the city has sponsored  I am aware of the Juneteenth one that's scheduled  But nobody has reached out to us for any of the other events  Other than the summer camp that Rocky Mountain Academy is currently hosting  Got it  Yes, Councilor Robertson  Yeah, and I want to thank you  You don't plan it  But as far as we're not going to be funding the homeless shelter, UCM  But the mayor, I appreciate you making some phone calls  And getting them funding  And they appreciate it a lot  And so with that being said, I'm looking at  If we have a lot of these programs, nonprofits that does significant work in our community  That's going to be cut  And I see this budget being cut  I think the only one that's being funded by 500K  So I've been studying other cities and what they've been doing is  They have someone on board, a professional fundraiser  So like a grant writing  And like what you did for the UCM, right?  You made a phone call  You went in your rollerjacks  You made a phone call  So if we could put a position on to find someone that's a professional fundraiser  Would it be CCM, right?  I think even if we temporarily use some of that 500K  Then we can find money for the Boys Club, Boys and Girls Club, the Tar River  The volunteer center, the small business support  All these places that we're cutting  I think that we may be able to fund a position for a fundraiser or grant writer  Because I had very good success  When I wasn't on the council and this council approved a grant writer  Within three months, she was able to fund $875,000 for the city  So I think using that same model  If you take some of this 500  We may be able to fund a library, everything  But they can go out and find money from private, big things, community grants  Or anything that's available  Just for clarity  What $500,000?  So I see the library, Brasswell Library  In this budget, are you saying that from Brasswell Library  It's not going to get $500,000?  No, no, no, no, no  I never said that  What I said is I wanted clarity from you  On where the funding that you were talking about  Because right now we have $500,000 allocated for Brasswell Library  Which is actually a reduction from what we've given them in the past  So I think that's a good thing  So if you take that reduction  If you take that funding that's promised to the library  That's going to reduce that even more  So I was wondering where you were coming up with the difference  So are you saying reduce the library as much?  Yeah, this is what I'm saying  So instead of $500,000 right now, right?  Because the library, amongst all the nonprofits  Are they the only ones that's certainly going to get funded?  Like you used to fund the Boys and Girls Club?  No  So in the budget, are you saying that  So in the budget we have, we call them outside agencies  We had the airport that's funded  We had the, I think it's the Gateway Partnership that's funded  And as well as the library  Because those were governmental agencies that we have  Staying in agreements with other jurisdictions  Outside of that, the outside agencies are not funded  Now we still have memberships to the COG  And to the school of government  Because we use them for resources  But the typical nonprofits that we've funded in the past  None of those nonprofits are included in this budget  Okay, so what I'm saying, if I could  Okay, so what I'm saying is you have $500,000  That's going to the library, right?  Which is less than what they  Yeah, I understand that  So, and I'm fine with that  How much do the libraries usually get?  They can tell you what they've received in the past  But I think it was over $600,000  Okay, so the homeless shelter is no funding for that, right?  The Boys and Girls Club, Tar River  None of that outside  So what I'm saying is if we pull back temporarily  Like we create a position for a grant writer or fundraising  There may be $100,000 that we take out of that  And you allocate $400,000 for the library  That $100,000 is going to that position  And their job every day is to find money  To fund these other nonprofits that we eliminate  And fund it for, like the Boys Club  The homeless shelter  So that person's job would be to find money  So these other organizations can be funded  And then the library, you may find enough money  That you can give them the whole set of $800,000  Okay, so it's a specific request  Because we're trying to get it down in the  We vote on up or down, right?  That's the whole goal here  It's your proposal here to eliminate  $500,000 of funding from the library  And then fund  No, so not the whole $500,000  I'm saying what will a grant writer or fundraiser cause us?  Would it cause us $100,000?  Call it $125,000  $125,000, then the rest of that goes to the library  But then that grant writer, the $125,000  Immediately generated the money  So your proposal is to eliminate $125,000  From the library funding  And add a grant writer associated with it  Yes  So can we add that to the list?  And then we can debate the ups and downs of that later  I mean, I don't think we're going to get caught in this bog  If we never be able to get out  I think we need to look at the big picture  We'll drill it back down from there  So just in follow-up with that question, Mr. Manager  Yes, sir  What are our obligations to, like, the airport?  I mean, these are for intergovernmental agreements  That way predate me, maybe even by birth  You know, what is color tradition  And what is the actual obligation to the library  To the airport, to gateways  To, you know, all those agencies that we contribute to  That we are members of  Well, I would say  If you just take the library and the airport  There's a specific funnel that the city uses to get that funding  I can tell you right off the top of my head  That the airport, for example  They have not increased their ads of the city  For the last, I know, probably 10 years  So their funding has remained flat  For the library, there's a specific formula that we follow  That where Nash County, Ashland County  And the city of Rocky Mountain all pay a percentage  And it's based off of that calculation  During the course of this past fiscal year  Due to our financial position  We actually had to pull back the amount  That we had agreed to  And the amount that we are budgeting right now  In fiscal year 27  500,000 is even less than that  And part of that is based on that calculation  Because during the course of our auditing process  We uncovered that our formula was different  From what was on the books at the library  And so we were able to get to a good point  Of negotiation on what we could offer them  With our current financial standing  And they agreed to that  And I want to say that either Nash or Ashland County  Ended up picking up that difference  For the current fiscal year  So moving forward, we gave them notification  That we would love to continue to be a part of that  And we feel like it's a big part of our community  We would not be able to continue at that previous moment  So we felt like 500,000 was a safe bet  But if we put further than that  It's going to be possibly detrimental  No, I'm telling you that  I just didn't know what the  I just understood how it got funded  And so the gateway is a little different  That's just been a council initiative  There is no formula on how much we fund them  It's just based off of their requests  Over the last several years  It has increased year after year  Due to our financial provision  Back in the fall, we actually decreased the amount  That we were giving them this year  I think so about 325  They can pull the actual number  But during the budget process this time  We reduced it a little bit further down  And this is quite a side  But I'm going to ask  I think once upon a time the Christmas tree was funded  By the Merchants Association  That predates me  And I'm going way back  I'm getting older but I want it  So it predates you  The other question I was going to ask  When did that become a city thing exclusively?  Joe probably could answer that  I'll text him  But I know when I applied for the city  Back in 2019  It's been a city function  Since then and that's been seven years  And for the call  It has pretty much remained  Black over the course of the time  So anywhere from 15  To about 20 job calls  And thank you  For the UCM project  It wasn't exclusively me  A lot of folks involved in that  I was making a lot of calls  My Chief of Staff, Cox  Carried a lot of the water on that too  That helped  But I want to give credit where it's due  So that's important to me  So are there any other items  That we want to add  Or take away  I have two  That I'd like us to consider  One was a micro transit grant  That we received  From  We have received from the North Carolina Department of Transportation  However  What it will do  Is give us a capital grant of $650,000  To fund micro transit software  Hardware  However, we will need to match that  I believe that matches  $136,000  So that's $650,000  But it's an opportunity for us  To look at micro transit  To review fixed lines  To conduct a study on that  We do have that  Information in front of us  And basically it's an initiative  To try to help those who  To be able to get to North Carolina  Have a lot of transportation  So I'll just add that  I have no idea where the money's going to come from  But I'm at least trying to get a whole list  The other thing is the commuter bus system  Again, we received collaborative effort  By a lot of our community leaders  But the grant  Has a 1% match  Which is $200,000 cost per year  For 3 years  But we're only talking about the 2027  It grants $3 million  Of funding to create an extension  Basically to the Department of Urban Transportation system  Allows to become a regional hub  The purpose and point  Of this grant and initiative  Was to try to help  Our employees  For a lot of these initiatives  That we have through gateways  The number one issue is  Where do employees come from  So the logical extension of that is  We have millions of people  With a 50 to 60 mile radius of us  So let's bring them here  And hopefully we can sell them  Again, it's a 20% match  $200,000 for 3 years  But this is at least  $3 million of funding  So I think that would look like  Commuter bus  $200,000  Put it up there on the board  But just for consideration  Are there any other items  That you might pick up? I have a question  So $135,000 for the  Microtransit grant  What is that microtransit  Is that like the on-demand  Yes, that's it  So that initiative, I started that initiative  Approximately a year and a half ago  I was trying to model off of Wilson  We were able to, I was able to get  NCPOT to take a look at that  We were able to review a study for that  We presented it to Harbor River Transit  It didn't really go  Where I wanted it to go  But that's a conversation  For a different day  What we didn't end on  Through the NPO having a conversation  Was let's take our fixed route systems  And  Let's  Re-route that  And create microtransit from point A to point B  The study came back saying  Places in the western part of the city  Where the fixed route systems weren't paying for themselves  It was up on ridership on it  To go to microtransit  But I think  I felt like that was backwards  So we re-tigered it  With the idea  That  We don't need  Microtransit in areas where we have  A wealthier  Population  Where we need it as a place where  We're trying to get the work  And a lot of transportation at 3 a.m.  Is a bigger deal  Than just trying to wait for a bus  We have those studies in-house  We can certainly get those to you  For review  I'm just asking that we consider any of this budget  I think it's important  And it was a lot of work to get to this place  We were very fortunate that NCPD  Were willing to do the studies  For us on both levels  And to work with us on that  But, you know, it's just one of those things  That will die if we can't fund it  And look, if we don't have the money  I certainly understand that too  Mr. Mayor, I want to reach to  The grant  Is there a timeline  For acceptance if we don't  Act at some point  In time  One or both could go away  I believe there is  I don't have that answer for you  I'm not prepared for that today  I don't know if  Mr. Daniels has that  We can get it  I don't have it right there  So $135  Will get us access to how much?  $650,000  $650,000  And then $200,000 for three years  And get us access to $3 million  $200,000  For three years  $200,000 is also the current budget  And I think we're kind of in a year-to-year  Stiff here  With that said, it's important to note  On the computer transit bus system  That will be ultimately a privatization  That's not something that we're going to take  All to home  We're trying to find a private company who will take that  We're providing  We'll call it seed money  Or proof of concept money  And their desire  Is to  Take that and be able to make this a profitable  Thing  Again  This really started out as  An extension of a fall process  Which I had engaged in  Along with other civic leaders  Probably nine, ten  Years ago  Associated with the DMV moving here in the Rocky  Mouth  And just got a little bit  In conjunction with the Gateway's partnership  And with a lot of the folks that I've been talking to  In coming some other places  How do I get employees here?  We've been looking for a year  Inevitably they either want to go move to the  Triangle area  Or when you look at the case of  UVC  Of the 850 employees that were  Displaced only about 300 of them  Lived in Nashville, Michigan County  So we've got to recognize that there's a  Much larger area  Every single conversation we have  Where am I going to find employees?  And so it's got a little like one or two things  Job free training  We've got to provide transportation  To get them to work  And then we've got to extend that out  So that was the idea  Again, the timing  I still stand behind those projects  But timing may not be the best  And so that's something that needs to be debated  I just wanted it on the list  I think it's building for the future  Because this budget is sustaining  But we also have to budget  For growth  We've got to figure out  We've got to figure out priorities  A little bit here, a little bit there  I'd like to say  Just for clarity, I'm not saying  Reduce the library, I'm saying  Bring somebody on so we can give the library  The full amount of funding that we used to give them  Along with all these other non-profits  So I just want to be  Clear that I'm not saying reduce the library  All right, well let's change it then  Bon City, Rock Mountain, position for grant writer  To the tune of $120,000  Is that what you're saying?  Yes  So also I would like to put on the table  I would love for Ms. Hall  To be here because when she came  To present it, she was talking about  That she's doing work  For software, right?  For this app that she's doing  And that's been sitting  Well with me because for years I've been  Talking to Ms. Hall about  Updating our technology and our  Software, right? And now  When I first came on council  One of the biggest things that I've been running into was  With the bills, with the utility  Bills and that crisis that we went through  We still haven't got the results back  But as far as  We need to modernize  Our building and collection, right?  So in order to modernize  Our building and collections, we need to  Put money in to get  The technology that Ms. Hall  Is working on outside  After work  Like why is she doing that? Her department  Collects the most money for the city  So I would love to put in the budget  Money so that she could finally  Get the technology, send the things  That she needs and make our  Building and collection department top notch  Just for clarity  Ms. Hall was not  At the break  That's something that she's doing  On her own at the volunteer time  I'm not quite sure that's even something that we're going to implement  At the city. All of our technology improvements  Will go through our technology offices  Technology services  And we would love to do that  We'd love to have technology  We have funding in development right now  To start that process  But we have  To do RFQ to find out how much  That would take  I know it's not  Cheap, but again we would  Support that but we just didn't have the funding to do that  Like this in this current situation  Yeah, so  What I'm saying, I'm not saying that you're accidentally doing it  But she's doing it because  She needs it  Like when she said this, she told us that she's still doing  Her spreadsheets right  So the technology needs to be  Improved, like before I got on this council  We've been talking about technology  And updating the technology in the  Building and collection department  So she definitely needs it  So how much money is actually being put aside  For the technology and without her  Being able to answer the questions  Is it enough money that we can  Modernize our building system  And again  A lot of our utility bills  They need to be updated  You know, and but  All right, so I'll recognize  Councilman Harris and then  Councilor Dawkins  And then we'll clarify what exactly the question  Is because I think there might be some money  In the IT department  Associated with software  To  Particularly software  And I think it's just  My own personal experience  It's very, very, very dangerous  To do some  Looking on applications  And what not, you got HIPAA concerns  You've got, you know  Just privacy of information, consumers  Introduction of  Potential providers is  Put this aside  And you know, does the system even  Work the way it's supposed to or are we using it  The way it's supposed to be? You've raised all those  Questions and I think we've got to get out of that road  But you know, Councilman Harris  Yes, the  Business and collections services  Budget for this coming year  Is a $205,000  Increase  Regarding contracts  For electronic pay  So there are  Some  Plans in place  For approving  Our delivery services  We just got to be mindful  That we just can't do  Everything all at one time  And  But there is $205,000  More this year  And I want to bring to everyone  You know, you were currently going through  The utility bill audit  Which I believe we will be getting the results of that  Pretty soon, if not this week possibly  Within the next two weeks  And it was not wise for us  To work on implementing a change  In the middle of the audit  Because what we wanted to do was get the audit  And get the results of the audit  And then based on the recommendations  From the state auditors office try to implement those things  Within time  But I don't think anybody on council or staff  Disagrees with the fact that we need to upgrade our technology  And that's something that we've been trying to do  Over the course of the last  Several years  We've just been trying to do it within the compliance  Of our current life situation  I just want to say Mayor  I'm keeping  I'm not saying anything because  You asked us to negotiate things later  So I just want to interject that  Beyond just  Putting what we want to  As opposed to  Having  I guess the question is have we considered  The need to release  Reviews, was it funded, if not  Where do you think  We might be short of this manager  And then we could add  That might be the  Thank you for the point  Certainly in your budget  And brief we have outlined the  Outlay projects and then that we  Have 250,000  Applications  That $250,000  I would say is like money to get us started  But I would venture to say  Having RFQs  RFPs out in order to do a full  System you'd be doing for a thousand  On top of that at a minimum  I don't know those numbers until we actually get  A request from them  But I think what our  Director from IT as well as  Latasha from the Business Service Center  I don't think today would like to go to  A completely new system I think it would just like  Upgrade the system  And to expand on my comments earlier  I think the entire council  Would like to see the building  Improve  In more detail  So I think  Even before this  Just want to make that comment because  Of some previous comments  So hopefully we can just put things up  Here as we move  Forward  So I guess the question then  Is there a request  To add additional funding  To this department  I would love to add that funding  But I would love for Mrs.  Holden to be back so she can tell us  What funding she needs  Because she knows she needs  Some technology and maybe she  Is already trying to build technology  That she needs so maybe she already  Priced it on knowing what price will be  Because she's been asking for this technology  For years  So for her to be here and tell us  What she needs to mobilize the department  And what that price will look like  I think that's what Elton just  Mentioned is  I think he just mentioned  He doesn't know the exact cost  She won't know the exact cost until we put  An RFP out there as a person who  Had an ERP system with a much smaller  Level  But still expensive you have to go  Through and do a lot of research and just because  You or I or someone wants  Something you've got to counteract  The associated  Expense with that and to go out there  Or even to bring anybody in here  Who has no knowledge of it I think  Is premature and we need to  And I'm sorry to debate  This but you know we're here  Where we are right now but it's  Premature to go out there and add  $250,000  When I think that  Would come up while you're going  Through this process and if you  Even added money now  There's only so much time  In the day that you can go through and review  Everything and get the work done you've got to start  Incrementally to where you can get it  To that and that's where we are  My understanding with the city of  Rocky Mountain and  As much as we'd like to snap  And get it done today  I don't think we're in a  Position where we can do that  Yeah so you're right I think  I think we are moving kind of towards  Bay but is there just a number you'd like to put up there  As a placeholder for conversation  Move up or down  As it relates to  The budget  I think  I would have that number to put up there  If I could speak to the  Head of the department and she could tell me  Because she's been doing this for years  I guess she would have a number  Of what it called because she's been  Well I'm assuming that she had  I'm assuming she had input in terms of the budget  That rolled up through this  That's true  So is it possible  To have her in here  Either today later today  So that we can find out what the  Needs are for this  Department because obviously  She's building technology on her own  Is a need so I want to know what  The need is her needs  Are not being met so what is  The need for her not to be  Trying to build it on her own  Well we don't have a number to add to that right  Unless we have her in here  I want to recognize Councilman Knight  Thank you so if that number  Exceeds  The 250,000  We can come back and just amend  The budget  You can't  Correct thank you  Yes sir Councilman Harris  Thank you Mayor Robertson  I'm looking at this budget based  Upon  Several conversations we have had  With the LGC  Their first  Point of focus has been  You have  Got to reduce expenses  You have got to reduce  Expenses  And  I think this coming year  We got to keep that top  Of mind  Controlling our costs  Reducing our expenses  Let us go through  This coming year  To see continued  Efforts that the city has made  About  Reducing expenses  Looking at hopefully additional  Sources of revenue  But we can't continue  To add things to the list  When  We represented  Are going to be going to the LGC  For two weeks  And then  They will look at  How do you control your expenses  So  Let's just keep that in mind  What can we do  To keep our expenses  Where this proposed  Budget is  And  If there is a recommendation  To increase  A particular expense item  We need to know where  The offset is going to come from  Are we going to reduce expenses  In another department  Or is there some other revenue  That we can put at  Use to offset the agreement  So  Let's just focus on what  The LGC wants us to do  Thank you  Any other  Chancellor Roberts  I just want to say that  Reducing expenses  She said it's $3.8  Million that she can collect  And that her app  That she was creating  Can show the different collections  So by us updating our technology  I think it's going to make it  More efficient and we can collect  More money by updating  That's normal to do that technology  So that's almost $4 million  In collections that she said  That's outstanding  So I think  Being her department collects  The most money for the city  Over $200 million annually  I think making her department  The most efficient at spending money  Because we've been neglecting it for years  Spending money in that  Department is much needed  And we're going to return our investment  Okay  I just wanted to  Just make a small announcement  There was discussion about the library  And the library directors here  And she was able to answer questions  If you have Miss Corso  I think she's been with the library for several years  But she was promoted as director  Just last year  I've been with the Frazo library  For over 20 years now  So I've been with the up and downs of the library  I just want to say  This morning thank you mayor  Thank you council for letting me come down  There was a shock this morning  With the list of  About how you wanted to cut the library  Or the idea of the library  Being cut another $500,000  You cut us last year  And we made it work  I just want to remind you that the library  Is a core service of this community  Okay  We have Wi-Fi, we have free services  We have free programs  You don't have the camps  The children come to the library for free  Receive free entertainment  Free education, free literacy  Stuff like that  The adults  We just had a job fair last week  We had over 500 people in the library  Many of the local jobs  The employers  And thank you  This is Courtney  She's my sidekick  We're looking for jobs  We have that for free  The library does everything for free  But you also have to remember that we employ  People from the city  As well  If you cut the library  You're already making me in a hard predicament  Where I'm going to have to furlough hours  Okay, these people have worked  Very hard in the library to support  Rocky Mount and Nash County  To cut us  Is not good  I'm already trying to make it work  Okay, you've cut the parade  You've cut all these services  And community events for the city  We're in plans  The library's planning to take up those  We're going to have a little  Fourth of July on the third parade  With the children around the library  We have that in the works  The library can take up for the  Community that the city is having  A hard time for you to do right now  And by cutting us  More and more  You're almost causing us to close  Which would be a very, very great loss  Not only to the city  But the counties  So this idea that went around  This morning  Please do not consider that at all  Okay, I have my ways  My employees have ways  I have the friends of the library  To find money for the library  Okay, there are people out there  You just reach out  For someone to find  You just have to pick up the phone and call people  By cutting us  It would be very, very bad  Not only for my employers, employees  But for the community as a whole  Okay  I've been here for 20 years  I've seen Rocky Mountain at its low  And its highs  This is a very core service  You have to recognize  We are a very important core service  To this community  If Rocky Mountain loses it  I'm sorry  But that would be a very huge loss  To everyone  Thank you  Thank you for your time  Thank you so much  Thank you  Thank you so much for coming down  This library is so important  I appreciate the service  And the work that you're doing  Thank you  What I said  Was not to cut the library  What I said  Was to create  A grant right of fundraiser  That can add more money  Because we usually give you  $700,000  So we can give you the full amount of money  And what I did say is  That we have all these other nonprofits  That's really important  Right by the library you have a lot of UCM members  Coming to your library  So we have to cut  The library  So look  Guys  We're getting on rails here  We're getting on rails here  We're not debating  I want to be sure that I wasn't  Cutting them  Charles can I  You know I think we've had  Enough debate on  You've raised the issue  It's certainly something for discussion  Nobody's voted on it  And I think we all value the library  So don't hear that we don't  And so I think that  What we need to do is we just need to focus back  On the process that we're on  Yes sir I just want to  We don't need anybody here  Your points will take  And I'm sure that  Thank you  Thank you  I think  You know during budget  During our budget work session  We're just moving forward  I don't think that's a time for  Anyone requesting  Funding to come during  Our work session for a budget  I mean we should have our proposals  Before we leave our work session  I think that's very  Controversial for us trying to  Move forward  With setups with our decisions that we need  To make  That was just a prime example of that because  When you're already talking about cutting  Funding and then you can have someone  Come in and present and ask  For funding  It's just you know that that could get very  Personal and  You know as we just saw the  Young lady in the library  So I think moving forward we could  Have our proposals before for a session  Well if that didn't consist of council  I'm sorry I didn't agree on that  No  That's not good when I wasn't saying cut  I wanted to add on  Councilman you said you  But you clarified it and it's on the list  As look at it  One city of rock composition for a parent writer at $125,000  The verbiage of about  Taking money from the library has been removed  So I think we're done  Any other items that we want to add  To the budget then we'll figure out  How we're going to fund these things and from  A prioritization I'd like to do a  Straw poll just to see kind of where  Council is  Then we've got to figure out what the  Total that would be and we have to figure out  Where the reductions in Elton's  The manager and his team's budget  Have to occur  Yeah and the one thing that I was going to mention  Just the last thing about utility billing  We are already in the process of getting  Some of those numbers in so we should have those  In the next few weeks  Not saying we'll have any time to include in the budget  But like council member Knight stated we always  Take advantage of that the other thing I wanted to mention  Is just on the revenue side before council member  Harris said we talked about expenditures  Added more expenditures  We had to talk about where the revenues  Just wanted to remind everybody  Not suggesting that this is what you do but  A penny is around $570,000  Well I think we've got to come back to  That too because you know Senate bill 1076  Has passed the Senate it's down the  House I don't know what it looks like  But I know that you have  Minimized you and your team in the presentation  Of this budget minimized fund transfers  From the enterprise funds into  The operating budget however there is  Still impact and we need to recognize  That and we don't have  Beyond we've got to pass this before  July 1  The Senate and the House and the Governor can  All pass this after that point in time so  We need to have a contingency plan  For just revenue to get to  The break even point but I felt  Like that was a more difficult  Conversation to have then at least we get  To the list and figure out what that sum total  Is at least to that  Yes sir Councilor Walker  Thanks Mr. Mayor and I might have missed this  But on the cashless transition  Support of the Senate and parking  Have we looked at costs associated with  That time out of the hearing moment  It's not even in the  It's not even in the proposal board  But in the office no  I would like to go through the list because I just carry  Over from last time I will recognize you  Councilman Barj Walker  The analysis request for the  S&F event center project  What options may look like in terms  Of negotiating a redebition contract  Contract reductions  Full operation transition scenario  You know looking at  The event center  In cashless transition  And parking  The downtown development grant commitments with options  To reduce delay or terminate status  Of that looking at  The analysis for the  Torr River transit redid plan with procurement  Requirements major vendor  Consulting agreements ranked by reduction  Potential legal expenditure  Review of the Tori underutilization of city  Owned properties with sealed bid scale  Sales methodology  This will be your 24, 25, 26  Projects over 250 million reduction  Options code enforcement  Receivables billed collective written off  For given utility write off  Stage receivables recovery strategy  And standing monthly reports  Which we have listed for aging  And so just kind of looking  From you Mr. Manager  Where are you or your team on this later?  Yeah all of this stuff is underway  We got this I think on April 25th  Yeah it's something  Yeah so we're currently underway  Some of them have already been completed  So for example I think we talked about  Snagging some active downtown development grants  We discussed that at several meetings  You all know in the upcoming fiscal year budget  We don't have any of those grants  Included in the budget outside of the  Four major incentive that  Has been included but then I think the  Other two were discussed so we  Covered that in the detail  City properties that's an ongoing  Study  Projects over 250  Reductions for the past previous  Years we've already done that  We've recommended that the projects that  We feel are critical to the  City's operation in this upcoming budget  But I would like to remind everybody  Even though we have included some  There are several more that have been  That are more than 250 so we can  The more we can defer it  The less the more likely will be  That that price will escalate over the  Next several years  With regard to the  Transit that is likely a  Six to nine month process that  We will have underway now that we have a new  Chief budget officer  That itemize  Event center expenses that's  Included into the previous  Year budget but we are working to  Make that  A little bit more detailed  The cashless process at the event center  That's an ongoing study that's going to take us a few  Months and then renegotiating the  S&M contract that's something that council will be  Bringing to you in the next several months so  All those things are in process  Some of the majority of them have already  Taken place. Thanks for that update  Can we add to the board here  Didn't get added I guess  Because the request  For the May and Gore building  As well  You got it  What I really want to do is  Tabulate what the total is  From this whole list  Maybe we'll take a little  Recess and let you do that once we finish this  List and then we can talk  About where the money is going to come from  Whether it's an immediate thing or it's a late  Thing or whatever that needs to look like  That brings some order and semblance  Where we are going into Monday which will be the  Public hearing on the proposed budget  So does anybody else have anything else they want to add  To this list?  I have a question  I have a question regarding  That S&M events and the contract  When is that up for renewal?  At 27  At 27  And then you said  One cent equals $570,000  What does that  Add to the  Average  Tax  One cent  To $100,000  $200,000  At the current  Status  It's about $116  On average annually for  A median household in Rocky Mountain  That's based on the seven cent  I don't know what one cent would do  One cent would be very  Minimal on top of what's already been  In the budget  I recognize Councilman  Harris that you were  Recognized on that  Then Councilman T.J. Walker  And then I'll come back to you for questions  So I guess  City Manager and Mayor  So the public can know  It might go transit grand  And if you need to go up under the  Tar River transit they would kind of work together  It does and it's kind of  Before the MPA which is  Part of the DOD process  There is no  Match to that grant  The $136,000  Is our ongoing commitment  Relative to drivers  So it would need to add  $136,000 to the budget but it's not  Match so I misspoke on that  That's right  It's part of the Tar River process  The study was conducted in conjunction  With Tar River  And so again  We can get you those  Package and I think that's important  Councilman T.J. Walker  For some attempts  Where we added those  The actual cost  Operational cost  At this time to a wage  No no I think we want to add cost  The whole idea of this exercise in my mind  Is just to list it all out  There's nothing  And then we can debate what each item is  If we feel like we need to  Go home to just see  Where council is  It makes the list  For Andrew Daniels and his team  To change the budget  For review  And then we just kind of go from there  Yes sir Councilman T.J. Walker  One more question too  Because I know with the summer camp  Like the people pay to go to camp  But we don't kind of see the money  They don't equal half  The Christmas parade is the same thing  Right people pay to participate in the parade  Some people pay  We pay others to do it  So it's the most  But it's not a cost recovery  That we do  To help the quality of life and health of the community  But there is no revenue  Generated from the Christmas parade  How many kids are impacted by something  Ish I mean I know  You don't have the exact number but I'm  I'd say  In round numbers  Maybe 100, 150  But I will say that they have  You know  Summer camp has already started so  The kids are in other camps throughout the community  And I know they can't be stepped off  With this as well but I was just curious  Okay  Alright anything else we need  To add to this request list  You spoke to the chair and councilman  Do you want to add any of those to  This list  Yes I would like to add them  And also  Mayor  As far as  Reductions do we add that  Are we going to find the money or just add this to the list  And then we'll come back and figure out where we can find it  You know we're  Through this right  But I would like to see what the aggregate  Number of this is right and then I'd like  For us to debate each individual item  I'd like to do a straw poll  I'd like to create a priority scale  Of the list  And then we can turn this back over to  Manager Daniels and his team  To help augment or at least  Help us with suggestions  Where we can find money  Because I  I mean I can find the money  But I don't know what the impact is  To the operations of the city either  So you know I think we need to be careful about  What I'm suggesting or any of the  Suggested cuts  I would like when we  I guess after we add this up  We'll debate each one  I would like to limit the time on each one  And also would like to really go to  Robert's rules of you speak  And you don't speak again until  Everybody else is spoken  That way  It's not a dialogue necessarily  What do we want to set the debate time for  I love the idea  Because otherwise we'll be here all night  I think three to five minutes each  Or position statement  We need to put some dollar figures  For those first two bullets  Yes we do  But let's go back to the process  I mean I like where you're going with this  I mean how about total debate  No more than  15 minutes per item  I'm out  That's a lot  Well it has been three times  One, two, three, eight, 24 minutes  So  Alright  Let's go 10 minutes  You know what if it's  Not working we can just  Do a little pause and go forward  I think the biggest thing is we don't go back  No no I got it  I got it  Is everybody good with that  Show of hands  It's okay got it  Let's set it for 10 minutes  So we'll go back to the process  We'll do the debate once you're done  That's the end of it  And then we vote it up or down  In terms of trying to give a priority scale for  Manager Daniels and his team to be able to  Advise his proposed budget  Councilor Ronson  Should I add these things  Like the Boys Girls Club  Community and Schools Tar Paper  We've got right here funding for outside agencies  We come up with a number  We need to come up with revisit comprehensive  Plan  I can tell you for the demolition it really just depends on  I assume you're talking about residential  The demolition is going to average anywhere from $15,000  So if you want to  That's a good starting point  For the comprehensive plan  Really very hard to determine  But I think previously  $100,000 $150,000  Is a good starting point  So everybody good with that  You just set it on 10 houses  For the $150,000 breach  I would like to double that  I mean  Double where  The demolition or  I have 20 houses  For $300,000  It's a Christmas  List  And what staff  Just as a reminder  What staff respectively asked of  Council at the previous meeting is  When they come with an addition because it has  To remain in balance  And also recommend  Well I think  I would rather  To provide to you on that  A little bit  And the reason I say that is  I mean I can  Whatever that number is we can say reduce  Funding for employees by  X and that creates it  That's not necessarily the best  I'd like for you to take a stab  And try to  I will say  We  I'm not in favor  I'm sorry  So  I had some suggestions on where we had  I wouldn't call it additional funding but we had  Flexibility and that  Total list is only $350,000  And so if you recall  The mayor and the council had a contingency  Fund that you hadn't really utilized  Over the previous years  So that was at $200,000  When we were talking about the Christmas parade that was staff  Recommendation to  Instead of reducing the travel is to take  $20,000 from the council  In contingency that way we wouldn't have to do  Any more balance so we could just reduce the $200,000  To $180,000  And then the Christmas parade could be taken care of if that's  What you wanted to do  The event center salary and wages, the event center cost of goods  We had about  $100,000 total that  Has some fidelity for those who get projections  But we feel confident that we can still get that  With the staff that we have there with production  Of $100,000 across the board  Nine departmental  Strategic initiatives, there's an additional 20  And then nine departmental return  With those additional things  So totaling all of that to contingency  That was a little bit of flexibility  About $350,000  Outside of that we're talking about  Limited services and other possible  Reduction costs or bake sale  Correct  Thank you  So as far as  I think the $4 million  And the 41 houses  I feel we had some money left  Maybe like $350,000  In ourselves  We had some money in that  But what I would want to propose  TJ if you could say  Just hear this real quick if you would  The liquid taxes foreclosures  And coal enforcement and elections  As far as legal  With paralegal  And attorney  On that  What would that force us to deal with  That in-house  And I believe the attorney will pay for itself  Find in some tax  Foreclosures, coal enforcement  Action, elections  And legal support for staff  How much would it be if we  Had an attorney  On staff and a paralegal  To help us with those different  You know what I'm saying  Tax foreclosures and things like that  I mean this is definitely  Just spitballing here  But I would say on average  For a senior attorney  You can have approximately  $200,000 to $225,000  That's including benefits for  Paralegal I would say  On the low end  Probably $50,000 to $60,000 plus benefits  So a little north  Of $300,000  Just keep in mind  We recently had a  Reduction in boards and this will be  Adding to our personnel  Cost which is something that we were trying to  Stay low because personnel cost  Is our largest expense  So are you wanting to add that  On to the list? Yes. Okay.  We can debate it.  Thank you. Bye.  So CJ we would  In-house attorney and paralegal  For about $350,000.  Funding outside agencies, what's the number we're putting on that?  That was number opposite.  Oh, funding outside agencies  How much do we usually hear then?  It's in the budget  For last year.  That same amount?  I think the total was around  $2,000,000 for all of the outside agencies.  2.1 I think.  Do you really want to put that up?  We'll do it.  No, I don't.  What I want to put is the grant  Writer and then if she's able to do that  Fundraiser is able to give money, then we fund  The outside. Alright, well then let's delete it  From this discussion today then.  It's about the fundraiser.  Yes, sir. Councilman Knight.  I just want a point of clarity.  We brought up some  Funding  With all the cuts  And  Looking at  This, which I didn't put anything  On the list.  She didn't ask anything.  So  Other than the F side  And the main borough, which you had  At the end, the balance  Budget that you presented  I think you said  1.2 for those.  And you remind us that  We did not.  We didn't put any  Consequences  To those contracts  That we were obligated  To.  Listen to the L.G.C.  And listen to  Other council members saying  Did you spend this cut?  And we got probably close to  Three million dollars on this list  Of stuff we have already  Gone back and had.  I'm really confused  To  Cut back than we do.  And it seems like  Every time we have a conversation  Additional  Things are being put back on the  List. Then we go on for a  Debate.  You know,  Like I said, the money is gone.  I say it again.  Nobody stole it and we don't have it.  But it seems like  This list keeps growing, growing, growing.  I'm not going to debate  Nothing.  Because you told us  In the beginning  What we could and could not do.  And  What we're going to have to  Raise, you know, as far as  Anyway,  I just see this list growing  And it's  Confusing because we already know  The position that we're in.  And  We talk about wish lists and  Sacred tiles.  But this list keeps growing.  And then we keep getting presenters  Coming here asking us for money  When we already know the position that we're in.  So anyway, I'm just  I hear you  Councilman. I think  I agree with a lot of what you're saying.  I think it's important to at least go through the process.  And so that's what we're doing.  And if anybody has anything else we want to add  Otherwise, let's try to total it off  And then, you know, get into the debate of the stuff.  And just one point of clarity.  The Memorial Hospital and  And the Duke's property were included.  The other two were not included. But I  I strongly recommend that council find that additional  To put those two.  I think CJ's working on  The Fianna they're working on.  How much would it be for them?  So let's just take a five minute recess.  If you put it to, yeah, okay, I like that.  Let's take a five minute recess because  I, for one,  Have the need for facilities.  1118  How about that?  We're doing  Hello.  Hello.  Everybody.  So  Okay.  Okay.  Yeah.  Okay.  Better know.  Okay.  Okay.  Yeah.  And then golf ball  Fire and rescue.  To basically  Yeah.  Okay.  I don't know if that's a great song.  I don't know if that's a great song.  I don't know if that's a great song.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Hello.  Yes.  How are we doing, sir?  How are you, sir?  good  Okay, thank you so much.  Good.  Okay.  Thank you.  Let's go.  What do I do?  Yeah.  Yeah.  Oh, you know, there are.  You're right about the.  Increases.  Well, I mean, everybody's got a pet product, so let's just discuss it, right?  I mean, the other budget's your budget, right?  So I'm just trying to get to the highlights.  What is the total number?  It's like two, maybe three million?  I don't know.  How should we do that, Ms. Clark?  I was going to run a continuous 10 minutes and see how many people we have here present today.  Six, seven, including me.  So 10 minutes is called a minute.  Minute 15 seconds.  Let's give it a minute and a half.  How you doing, sir?  Come on, how are you, sir?  I'm doing amazing.  How you doing?  How you doing?  All right.  Let's go around and start going.  So, you know, speak to people.  We're all here.  Strong vote.  We'll do long.  We've done well.  We're proud of you.  I'm going to eat.  That's fine.  Here.  Two minutes.  Who wants to speak?  We'll try.  Hello.  I got a sucker.  You do too.  Hey, I love it.  Come on.  I want everybody to enjoy the party.  I got to see Greg.  I'm going to come from.  Right.  Right.  Right.  Right.  Yeah.  That's it.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Right.  It's about.  I mean, this is about, this is good.  We are adding one of these, but.  So Monday night is Republican.  Exactly.  You want to speak to the budget, whatever component of the budget or not, you'll  have three minutes to comment.  Right.  I.  Book a lot of staff.  Yeah.  And then we've got to read the budget twice.  Right.  Monday night, we've got to do it a second time, and then we'll vote on it.  We'll vote on it in 5, 2, 3.  During that period of time, there may be changes.  Right.  And I'm just trying to head that off.  So.  And I'm just trying to head that off.  So everybody's going to win.  Do you still need it up?  Last minute.  So the other thing that we've not discussed here,  how do we have to make up any kind of attention on revenue shortfalls associated with fund transfers?  And we don't really have any personal note with fund transfers in this budget.  However, when you look at the administrative fee impact on that,  it basically allows $2 million.  I haven't watched it in a long time.  And that's what I have.  No rocket science.  In fact, that's the case.  I don't know if it passes in this budget.  There's another conversation.  So we're stuck a little bit here in that sort of scenario.  By increasing the $0.07 that you just have right now,  my understanding would be you're getting all $3 million deep in revenue.  Right.  And it's predicted that actually,  I want to be able to buy on $3 million.  And I'm seeing some insurance problems.  I think it's more of about $500.  That's right.  The whole student budget we have had is $1 million.  If you don't have this,  nobody takes back any balance on that.  They do a little bit.  You want to use that.  I know.  That's the whole thing.  You've got to be prepared.  One degree and a chance on the hero.  Right.  Yeah.  Everybody's got an opinion, right?  Everybody balances their own budget differently, right?  What I was looking at,  what I'm looking for,  11 point something,  whatever you have this year.  That was also there last year.  And then last year.  So if you just keep that in mind,  then you can counter the...  I knew by that.  You will see.  I'll see you all then.  I'll see you all then.  Thank you.  I'll see you all then.  You're welcome.  No, you're welcome.  I'll see you all then.  I'll see you all then.  Yeah, I don't think that...  In the form of passing that...  They didn't have the data for that, but anyway, it doesn't matter, but what we've got to do now though, we've got to put all of that together to create some solace in the community.  We're going to do a one-on-one ability to increase tax activity.  That's the good thing, if it's not mixed.  We're going to do a one-on-one ability to increase tax activity.  That's the good thing, if it's not mixed.  That's the good thing, if it's not mixed.  That's the good thing, if it's not mixed.  That's the good thing, if it's not mixed.  That's the good thing, if it's not mixed.  That's the good thing, if it's not mixed.  That's the good thing, if it's not mixed.  That's the good thing, if it's not mixed.  That's the good thing, if it's not mixed.  That's the good thing, if it's not mixed.  Where's Charles?  Okay, we're back in session.  Okay, we're back in session.  So here's what we've agreed to. We've agreed that we're going to limit the debate to 10 minutes.  Each person will get two minutes to speak.  So that's what we've agreed to.  So that's what we've agreed to.  So that's what we've agreed to.  So that's what we've agreed to.  So that's what we've agreed to.  So that's what we've agreed to.  Anybody else? Yes sir, it was. I'm proud of you. We're trying to do that on Mondays.  Comprehensive plan funding, $150,000.  We have 10 minutes for the discussion, no more than two minutes per person.  Do you have any thoughts on it that you want to speak to?  Okay, that seems to eliminate the conversation.  I would rather have something like that if we find ourselves in a better position than later on in the year, is my preference on something like that.  Mayor, I'll add for the comprehensive plan, it's possible that if the planner position, which I think is included in the budget, is that it's staffed to do a lot of the legwork in-house,  that number that I threw out was just contracting it out, doing something in, but it could be less if we try to do a majority of it in-house.  I don't know what council's desires are, but I do know if we are to do an RFP, it's likely to be the 150.  Right now, I'm just looking for the 150, yay or nay. If you're telling me staff can do that, at least carry 8%, then I think that has impact.  Councilman, George Walker.  No, I think we can do it in-house, but also like Eli said, we can come back and revisit at a later time.  No, but not today.  All right, let's do a little straw poll. All those in favor of moving that forward, raising your hand.  One, two. All right, all opposed? One, two.  Well, a no vote is a yes vote.  I would say in-house.  In-house, yes, we got it. All right, so we're going to eliminate that from the budget discussion as we go forward, but we're going to task manager with adding that function to in-house staff.  All right, demolition funding of $300,000, that equates to roughly 20 houses. Anybody wants to speak on this?  The demolition funding for the budget is approximately for 20 houses over the next year. Does anybody else care to speak to this?  Can that be done in-house?  Demolition, all right.  We've done some of it in-house. We have equipment.  It's not likely due to the age of the homes and the aspects. We contract a majority of the demolitions.  I'm just saying, if the assets were to be removed, I know at one time you did some demolition.  Yeah, I mean, we could attempt to, but I still, even with the assets removed, there would be a substantial cost. That's the large part of the demolition is the assets removed.  So, if you're saying $10,000 to $15,000 per house, I would still say $7,000 or $8,000 just for the assets removed.  Okay. Councilor Robertson?  So, at wars 1, 2, and 3, we have a bunch of houses that need to be demolished. It's got a whole problem yesterday.  And if we're going to be asking taxpayers to pay $7,000 more, and I think it's really important that we fund the demolition.  And also, can I say something about the other one? Joseph was here. He said it would be $125,000 for that comprehensive plan.  So, he says $25,000. I know you said that, but I'm just saying if that matters, that $125,000.  Okay. All right. Anybody else? Councilman Harris?  Thank you, Mayor Robertson. Can we not, I know we're stretched, but can we not put an in-house team together and maybe identify up to 20 houses that maybe they can do an early assessment of whether or not they have or do not have asbestos?  Yeah, and we can maybe focus right now on those houses that would not require a lot of asbestos.  I think we have one person on staff that's qualified to make those assessments. And I know they have a running list of the houses that are at one point been scheduled to be demolished.  So, I don't think that would be a hard task for us to at least determine which houses have asbestos based on the current list.  I would like to say again, and I support Councilman Daltridge, it's critical that we go through the end of this calendar year with the cash flow projections that we have provided the Secretary, the Treasurer, the LGC, and other council government figures.  And maybe we can put this on a May budget update session in January or February or some things that maybe we can look at going into the spring of next year. But critically, the cash flow projections are critical.  Okay, Councilor Daltridge?  I stand by my comment about the comprehensive plan and agree with Councilman Harrison's previous comments about demolition. I think it's vitally important we do demolition throughout the city, but I think we need to lay it to our past position.  And maybe we can move forward and actually do more once we find out.  And I'm going to take some executive privilege. I would propose that we work on this bundling of monies or properties that we have and seal the process, leave the house intact, let that see what we can sell and what's left over, then redo the conversation about demolition in some of the worse areas.  Anybody else?  So when you say...  You said you were going to...  I was just asking a question.  Well, I know, but this is not the process we're using, right? So all those in favor of including demolition funding in the budget $300,000 for this fiscal year, that's written if you'll raise your hand.  All right. All opposed?  Okay.  We're leaving it alone.  We just bundle whatever we're going to sell, do a closed bid process, seal bid process, open it up. What doesn't sell, that needs to be limited and demolished. We can have that conversation at that point in time.  Rescue equipment and fire department, $50,000 is what we discussed.  I'll open up discussion. Anybody want to speak to this particular line item?  I put that on there because when we had the presentation from Chief, and I think safety was one of our number one priorities.  Although if I had it...  And I know the condition of the equipment, but Chief said that they need to be replaced on. So that's why that was added up there.  Life and safety is important to CIFAR community.  Great. Anybody else?  Yes, sir. That's for Harris.  I support the rescue equipment, but maybe defer to support vehicles.  Again, in the springtime to see what our cash position is.  Okay.  Okay.  Anybody else? Councilman Robertson?  Can we pledge it for it and then you spend it for the cash position?  Well, that's the conversation. We're close today. This is for the 27th budget. We're either included or not.  Yes. So he was saying that when our cash position is better. So we're saying not included now because then when our cash position is better, we will come to conclude it.  We can, as Councilman Knight said, we can always do some adjustments to it.  Is that correct?  That's correct. The appropriate thing would be to not include it in the budget as we present it as the imbalance.  As we get through the year, our cash position, we hope to improve.  And at that point, we would be bringing the purchase back to the council for consideration at a regular schedule meeting based on the cash position at that time.  Got it.  So you don't have to have it in line item in the budget at this point in time. We can just look at our position. If we have enough funding going that point of year, we'll do that.  I definitely support the fire. So that's the best way to go about doing it.  But give the equipment that we need to do our job.  Anybody else?  Okay. All those in favor, including the fire equipment and this budget, $27,000.  We're just doing line item by line item.  We're going line item by line item. So yeah, this is about including it in the budget. Then we have to figure out how that all sets up to be. $50,000.  I got one question. I'll squeeze you in real quick.  Rescue equipment. Does that take long? Like the five truck stake?  It doesn't take it long. It doesn't take it long.  The only thing that takes so long is anything that we have to deal with for the equipment. We can just purchase that.  Now it may have some lead time based on where it's coming from, but it's not the same time as ordering the fire truck.  Okay.  Show of hands. All in favor, including the rescue equipment for the fire department, the 27 budgets, $250,000.  Please raise your hand. Okay. One, two, three, four. Okay.  That moves on. $50,000. Funding of two support vehicles in the fire department.  $160,000. Am I right? Am I reading that right?  Yeah.  Okay.  I'm sorry.  Yep. Those two vehicles. Okay.  Anybody want to speak to that?  And I added the vehicles again for the same purpose, but I think after I've heard some of the transmissions have been replaced in these trucks multiple times.  So we're getting beyond end of life on these.  Talking about where to find these. I would go into life and safety again. I propose going to the City Council contingent.  It's $200,000.  It would more than fade.  We'll still have to find $10,000 for the two fire department pieces in the budget.  But I'm also thinking if we could just get one, if we might consider just one as opposed to two and then reduce that down to $80,000.  And then go back to what we talked about the contingency. If we come back into the later on in the year and find that we need it, then we have it soon.  Okay.  That's where I'm talking about.  You added that item. You want to divide it, call it $80,000.  Yes.  All right. We'll look at one to $80,000.  Anybody else want to speak to that? Councilor Knight?  I was up on the committee.  There are support vehicles in the transmission of the average wage.  And.  You drive with it until.  It makes sense for you.  Okay.  Set this up.  We already.  Purchase some big equipment.  All right.  Anybody else want to speak to that?  Okay, show of hands.  We've moved to funding one support vehicle fire department for the current fiscal year budget to $80,000.  Show of hands.  All those in favor, including that this budget today.  Please raise your hand.  All opposed.  All right.  Strike that from the budget.  That just got deferred.  All right.  Christmas for $20,000.  Anybody want to speak to that?  Yes, sir.  Councilman Harris.  Managing Daniel said there's an agency amount.  In the mayor and council's budget.  We reduced that amount.  About $20,000 to cover.  Take the Christmas blade.  That I think a lot of our citizens would like for us to have.  Okay.  Anybody else?  I have a question.  Sure.  You have two minutes.  Okay.  As far as the demolition, right?  This is my first place.  We've moved on from that.  I had a question regarding it.  Okay.  We've moved on.  We're onto the next item here, if you don't mind.  Okay.  We're going to read on that.  So I was just saying where the money could come up.  Christmas parade.  I got you.  Christmas parade.  We're on Christmas.  Thank you.  You want to speak to Christmas parade.  All right.  Councilman Harris is trying to save Christmas.  That's right.  Okay.  All right.  No other discussion then.  All but show of hands.  Who's in favor of moving the $20,000 to fund the Christmas parade?  That's coming from the contingency.  That's what he's proposing.  Correct.  Okay.  All right.  Move that on.  $20,000.  Christmas has been saved.  All right.  The Epstein building, which was I guess one of the major project items that we had  approved previously.  We've got folks who have invested.  The commitment for the current fiscal year is $181,436.  Current commitment for the fiscal year.  So if anybody wants to speak to that, please.  I don't know what the legal application is.  I think the manager will let us know in reference to that.  That's correct.  If it is a signing legal contract.  That's correct.  Just like any other thing that we do with the city.  You know,  it's all software and whatever.  So,  got it.  Anybody else?  I'm in.  Yes, sir.  Tj Walker.  I know I missed the meeting.  Is that an active project?  The output is active project.  they have funded a significant amount and you know and we had notified them  that we were not going to pay because of the cash crisis but you know they came  before us and basically demonstrated that they funded it. And they provided  the white sheet that council requested that you should have. That shows their  time schedule, their drawdown rate, as well as where they stand on the  property. Yeah, I mean we've already, we sort of put ourselves in a position where  we're already funding two other projects downtown. I don't know how we got to fund these two.  That's just my two cents. Okay, anybody else? Councilor Dolch, Councilor Robertson.  Clarification on the contract. Does the contract have an outfall, I guess?  I don't have it right in front of me. I think I emailed it to all of you. I would like to  review that with the attorney to find out what our causes and our options would be.  But I assume that it does. I think it does and so this, the status on this one  according to the sheet is, you know, pre-construction, completion,  architectural design. I would, I would like to maybe say we pay that piece out and then wait  till, you know, again, January or so to see where we are on that. I think it's important,  so it's a, now is this also the one that has the culvert, the city culvert one?  Never mind. Because the city culvert is going underneath the building, I feel as if we need to  support this. That's the main one. Anybody else? Is that, is it, hold on, I don't have it.  Okay, Councilor Sorensen. That's my notes. I know it's the one that the law has,  so it's not the FC because the next building. Okay, well I, then in that case, then I would say  okay, I'd like, I'd like to wait till it's done. One, the money that they've already spent,  but then, which is, I'm not sure how much that is, it's for the architectural and then  if we find ourselves in a better position,  they're that well and I don't want to do that, but that's what I'm suggesting.  Councilor Robertson. So as far as these downtown projects, like I said in the previous  meeting, I definitely support them bringing the downtown back. My question was, would the money  come from 181,000, you know, and how can we explain it to our constituents? Because we say  we don't have money to do demolition and houses that we're going to raise their property tax  is seven cents, right? You're proposing to raise their property tax seven cents. So again,  where's the money going to come from this building for the due to this building and how can we  explain that we can't find money to make these walls, these neighborhoods, people living next  to these dilapidated houses and be able to do that? So if you could give me. Well,  respectfully, I disagree how you phrased it. So the budget has been recommended as an imbalance  where the money comes from is the general fund and that's a cost for everyone. If it's  general fund project. So it's up to council to determine which projects you want to fund,  which projects you do not want to fund. And that's where the money will come from. But  all of the funding for these projects are going to come from the general fund as a whole.  You know, because I heard the council, our cash flow, we have to protect our cash flow,  right? So if we, if we're raising people's taxes and they have to live next door to  dilapidated houses, right? But we're saying we can find $181,000 to fund this downtown building.  What I'm saying to you is does that affect the same cash flow that the general is going to  need to dilapidate a house? I really don't know how to explain it. Council member Robert  Sandberg. All right. Just two minutes. Look, here's the deal. We voted on the dilapidation  and nobody wanted to push it forward. We're on the Epstein building, $181,000. Your position is  you don't understand it, probably not support of it. So does anybody else want to speak?  Well, we're going to figure that out next. All right. Yes, sir. Councilman Harris.  I really would like for Colin to take a look at these two contracts.  Because the original contract with the city, I don't know if it's timeline. I see a summary.  But what was the date of the original contract? Has it been extended or is it still in compliance?  We need to get an update. I think after Monday's council meeting with public input,  we might need to get back together for a final public before we approve it formally on  June 22nd. So I think we need to get back together for a final public  before we approve it formally on June 22nd. And that's definitely an option.  But I'm concerned about legal contracts and we do something without knowing exactly  what we have committed to. Okay. Anybody else?  I'll show of hands, including in this budget, you know, that we're proposing,  we've proposed the Epstein building funding $181,000 fiscal year 2027. Show me your  hands. All those in favor of including that? May I respond to?  No, sir. We agreed that we were not debating this. We agreed that we  give our position statement. We both move forward. I've got one, two. All right.  All those opposed to including the Epstein building funding of $181,000. Show of hands.  Who's opposed to it? Who didn't vote?  Was that on Epstein? Yes, sir.  Yeah, I support it. All right. We'll move the $181,000 into the next call. All right.  Now we're on the Van Goren building, $554,678,000 fiscal year 2027. Anybody wish to speak on that?  This is the one that has the culvert underneath, which is owned by the city of  Rackamount that's failing. So I feel as if we need to support this.  Anybody else? I definitely support them. I'll make  my question is regarding the funding. And to answer Councilman Harris, I think that the  city attorney has already won the answer and told us what we can and what we can't do.  And I think we said that to Councilman Doherty.  I'm trying to find it now. Yes, I'm trying to find it too.  So he has weighed in on this. So the decision is priorities, I guess.  Yep. And as far as in that white sheet, did we show the return on investment? Because one time  when I was advocating for these grants, we showed like in five years that the city  cooped the money, right? It showed like I think something like in five years, it shows that  in taxes, utilities of the city, we cooped this money back, right? Do we have anything like that?  Because it's tough to sit here. You had a white sheet, wasn't it?  I didn't see it in the white sheet. Well, I don't think it would be an issue  to have members, the representative come back to the committee.  That would be our job. Like Ken did that. Ken did a budget. We know that in five years  due to taxes, utilities increased, that the city will make back their money.  I could have a finance and budget staffer for that.  Because to have something like that, the city constituents would say,  okay, you're not going to get this, but we're going to put money here. How can we justify  that? That in five years, all of this money is going to be back and then from there,  you create taxes. For one thing, we can do current tax value is probably not high,  but after the five years. That's two minutes.  Anybody else want to speak to this matter? Councilman T.J. Walker.  Yeah, I think the justifiable reason to the public is we've already selected two other  organizations and support developers to receive the basic set of grants.  And so, I don't know how we did not support Lisa. We can't pick and choose who we support  and support major incentive grants across the board. We can't pick and choose two  here and one here. So, I think the justification is for downtown development, we're making a  decision to support the major incentive grants that council set for downtown major incentive  projects. I mean, that's the best justification you can get on top of the ROI. I mean,  all of the ROI's are going to be indifferent because all the projects are due. But bottom  line, the principle is you've done it for two already and you have two that are also active.  So, I don't know how we did not do it. Anybody else want to also add that these  were previously approved. These people didn't spend money just without a charge from the city.  Anybody else want to speak on this matter? All those in favor of carrying forward the main  GORM building, $554,678 to the 27th budget. Joe Hans, we've got one, two, three. It passes.  Move that to the column. Summer caps at $45,000 per site, $90,000.  Does anybody want to speak to that? I want to clarify this, Mayor, before we start.  So, just so everybody understands, if this gets approved, this will not be this summer.  The window for this summer is gone. The funding would be for the two.  I guess that's one of those conversations we can come back and look at later on in the year.  Okay. So, yeah, as far as that's why I think the next one is so important,  the fund the city grant writer, because that fundraiser can find money.  You would do yourself well to keep the topic.  Oh, I'm just saying that money can be found for the summer camp.  So, the money that they can find to fund the summer camp. So, this is it.  Anybody else? All those? Yes, sir. Councilman Mayer.  So, is there anything that we can do for this summer? Maybe if we don't offer the camps,  have additional activities at the community centers for the children?  Possibility. We've reduced our staff from part-time, but we could easily add a couple  of part-time staffers that do some form or another at the facilities, because they are  open and available to the public again. So, that's probably what we could do.  They probably, you know, nominally, just have additional activities.  We're not offering a camp for this year, but I do support the summer camp for the  next year. Councilman Tavares-Forker.  I think I agree too. Like someone said, if maybe we still got things at the community  centers where the kids can attend, even if we do a college tour throughout the summer,  we could do a day where we do have the bus set up. We could walk them in Ash County,  take them to the pool. I guess sponsor by the city or something like that,  which they normally do. Maybe we should still do that, do some small stuff or something like  that. We could have days. I would caution us about actually taking them, but we could  have like a day, because they have waivers and something they have to sign, and because  they're not registered for summer camp, it would be a little difficult. But we definitely  could have like days that we sponsor at Sunset Park or a district pool, and we can  just announce that and partner with the schools and the people that are going to camps,  even at a discounted rate if we need to, which is not very expensive to take anyway,  but we could say, hey, since we're not having a summer camp, we'll open a pool  just for summer camp kids. Councilman T.J. Walker.  Yeah. I think if the funding is approved, we look at options similar to what Councilman  Michael said, but we look at options of how to expand the existing summer camps that  are in the cities. Maybe that is some of our part-time staff working on other camps  to expand those camps or providing whatever additional funding if it's approved towards  those camps to expand them for our kids and our part-time staff that won't have  the summer camps they normally have. I would like for us to be able to support  the funding. Okay. Anybody else? So the install poll here now is $90,000, $45,000,  $25,000 per site for next June. All those in favor, please show your hands.  Okay. Moves on to the next call. Funding City Rocky Mountain Position for Grant Rider.  Do you want to speak to that, Councilman Robertson? Thank you. So when I was maybe  five years ago, I was begging for a Grant Rider. I was going around knocking on  everyone's door to get a Grant Rider for downtown. Councilman Hunter Knight and  Councilman T.J. Walker brought that here, and they was able to get a Grant Rider on board,  and they gave us three months contract. Within those three months, that Grant Rider was  able to fund $875,000 for this city. So I think Grant Rider or fundraisers,  even if it's not a staff position, if we get a consultant that will pay for those  itself, and also, it will help us give the money. I shouldn't use the word cut.  Got me in trouble today. But it will help us give that money to the library,  the $700,000 that we used to give them. So wherever we find the money, I think  that Grant Rider can help fund all these organizations that we're saying that we're going  to cut, like the Voice Club, UCN, and other organizations, they can find money so they  can find out. And they maybe have a role to play. I think they're able to call  some people and find money. Thank you. Anybody else? Councilman  Harris. Well, my concern is  Manager Daniels and his department managers and other people here, they have gone and reduced  FTEs. If we go and hire a new person, I could probably say any department in this  organization has a critical need for one new person. But at Grant Rider,  we green that person up. It's going to take 30, 60, 90 days to go through the hiring  process, the bidding process, and it might be another 90 days or more before we even start  having some potential benefits. But Manager Daniels has said repeatedly, most of the grants  may come with some sort of a map. And I just think at this time, it's just something that  I should not even depart. Just don't consider it. Councilman Dolkey. Councilman Harris  pretty much summed up what I was going to say. But I would add that a lot of these  agencies can do some of this themselves, but the big thing is to match. We get all the  grants we want, but if we got to match it, we're not going to have the money.  So for those reasons, I can't support it. Okay. Anybody else?  Okay. All those in favor of carrying $125,000 into the 27th budget to fund  a decision for Grant Rider, please share. All those opposed?  All right. Three. I need, all right. One, two, three. I need TJ and Andre to get one  way or the other. It's like that. All right. Item dives. All right. Micro-transit grant DOT.  And do I want to speak to this? I've already spoken to it.  Clarification. The grants for $650,000, that is in place. We have studies. The $136,000 is  what the ongoing obligation would be fund a driver or drivers to be able to do the  micro-transit and all that sort of thing. So no clarification. Did this save money  off of guitar or transit? Or were we too late in the season because you have to go  through the feds to cut? We were not too late. The grant is in place. There's a study.  The study was done from, really Todd. Of course he's gone now. So, you know,  it's probably something we ought to take up and consider. If you want to table it,  I think that might be appropriate to look and see what those numbers are.  But I hate for us to lose sight of it. Well, I think, I think micro-transit  in the long run could save the city of Rocky Mount money and also improve our service  to those. But that's kind of what I was asking. Could we cut the manager? If we had  micro-transit on some of those routes that are not heavily used and try to focus mainly on  that or is it too late in the season? You kind of get through fed approval to look at routes.  I do think it would take us some time to go through the routes. I do think it's a  possibility of course to adjust once we get the results of that. So I think it would be  possible to mature. I think it's too late for us to do it right now. But I think,  can we go through the, basically the study that I said would be about 69 months,  the results of that study would show us some of the routes where micro-transit would be  most successful. I think the mayor, or the mayor stated that already. We have that study.  We reviewed that study. The MPH has looked at it. What I think maybe needs a little bit  of look-see is are the routes really what we want or not want or didn't want. I mean,  that was actually very difficult to get that idea across. I'd like to have that  conversation next to me at all. Maybe just table this until we get all that involved.  Yes, I think there's a lot of settings. I believe that it increases, you know,  folks who are unable to get employment now because of transportation. I think it creates  a lot of benefit for us. But I wouldn't spend any time on it.  But if we wanted to do this process, we could table it. I would suggest we do that. We could  get to a whole mayor pro-town in half, maybe 30, if we have this discussed. Because I think  the long-term savings, again, is a benefit to the city along with the improved service to  our folks. There are some intangibles, but I, you know,  money's running a little tight. I think we can get there and let's have that conversation.  We can have it in great detail. I'll move and take it.  Okay. Yes, sir. Councilman. Yes. Will we have the information before?  We won't have the information before budget, just know what they're talking about.  No, not during the second time. So that's 300-something dollars. So let's  keep in mind if we get the information and we agree to move forward, we may want to start  investing. Yes, sure. We have the money in the budget if we decide to do so.  That's right. That's right.  So when we're thinking about rates and stuff that we have to do to add it in. If we don't,  we just have the death sentence. I got you. Why don't I do this? Why don't I  pull you to the study? Why don't I circulate it to everybody? And then let's just have that  conversation. I think in most cases, it's just the ability to accept the grant funds.  Mr. Councilman, TJ. Councilman, I was going to say I'm ready to vote on it.  Okay. Councilman, at least we know we have it.  Okay. The money we don't budget, it has to be there.  That's right. Councilman Harris.  Yes, thank you, Mayor Walsing. Any special vans? Any cost of equipment?  Is that coming? Where does that come from? That's being paid for by the grant.  By the grant? Yes.  That's for citizens. That's right.  For citizens of it. That's right.  So as far as the studies that you've already done that tells you what Ralph's  or the vision of what Ralph does to have people in it. So can that information be  passed over to the transit now to see how we can-  Transit has it. I think that they were a part of helping to pull the stuff together  in order for us to even get the grant. So they have that information.  Yeah. So can we use that to make a current  buses system more efficient? I think that's what they've been talking about.  That's what we're talking about. Because now the bus, one of the things  we're talking about is that the Tart River is going on routes that may not  have as many riders. But if they have that information, can we use that  information to make our bus system more efficient before that six to eight  month study? You know, like these routes are now  currently working. Getting people to speak.  That's what he said. I echo what Councilman Nalaj said.  I mean, Dr. that's fine.  Yeah. Look, Dr. said, okay, I was just wondering,  like, the information is there to make the bus system more efficient, right?  What we stated earlier is that we cannot change our current bus route  right now because we have federal funds tying that. In order for us to  change those bus routes, we have to take time and do the study and  recommend and get a rule from the federal government.  I think what the mayor is suggesting and what Councilmember Dr.  stated is that once we have time to get that information,  microtransit will not replace our current transit system, but will  supplement and hopefully be efficient in the long run six to eight month.  Okay. Because the mayor said you looked at the by-sharing Wilson  vehicle then, right? Wilson, what Wilson did was, they  tell me if I'm incorrect, Mayor, they sold their bus system  and they do it on demand, the by-share circuit.  That's correct. So, it's not just that. I mean,  Settlund's done it. Morrisville's done it. There are a number of  microtransit systems that we looked at that included fixed route as well as  you know, point A, point B. All those are included in the study.  And so, yeah, that's the point. And so,  I've got two to say, write this vote on and get the money in the budget.  Some are saying, no, that's what we're trying to do here.  Yeah, in the budget. I just want to make sure because the Wilson,  if he was to go to route that Wilson is going, will we still get  federal funds to subsidize that? We would have to determine that. I know  that the city of Wilson and the other organizations are supplementing those  with your own fund revenues as well.  Yeah, all right. That's our two minutes. Anybody else? We're not  eliminating our bus system. No, no, no. This is not eliminating buses. This is  an argument too. All right. All those in favor of  $136,000 move into the 27 budget related to the microtransit  opportunity that we have. Raise your hand.  One, two, three. All opposed.  I thought we were going to table it. Well, I'm all about tabling it.  Yeah, table it until the next. But, I mean, the idea was  to push it out, see if we can find the funding for it.  That was, what do y'all want to do? I'm going to table it. I got a motion  tabling. Anybody want to second it? Second. All right. All right. Let's put  that up or down. Table it. All in favor. Three.  All opposed. Well, then he asked to table something. So, we've got three  votes. I'll wait the time. So, let's go to 27.  You're doing this. That's right.  Add it to the 27 budget, the $136,000 on.  All those in favor. All right. Okay. Now, commuter bus transit grant,  DFT match, is $200,000 for a year. For three years is the obligation, the  commitment, but we're talking about $200,000 in the current fiscal year.  It provides us with $3 million in funding for commuter bus system.  Again, it stretches out to at least 50 miles. First route be Raleigh to  Buck's mouth and then it adds from there. Okay. Anybody else want to  discuss this, sir? I think it's a great thing. I wish we could  have some product funding to bring that $200,000 just because it's  the health of particular employers. I would  put this one more to the, if we have it in January, unless those grant  funding is in by certain period of time. Okay. Raleigh?  I support Councilor Dahlgren just said,  well, it depends upon the nature of the brand and  when we got to sign it out of the line, maybe a bit, but if we can look  at it in early calendar year 2027, I would like to see  that if that's possible.  Anybody else? Yes, sir. Kassman? Yeah, I think they  if the capacity is funded, I think some type of reimbursement  from corporate sector that will be utilized  to benefit from this. I think that would be helpful.  I'm not sure if we're going to be able to go with the funding.  This computer transit, this was the one from here to Raleigh.  Here to Raleigh, then ultimately extends from here to Elizabeth City and  south side of Virginia. So it's several different. Several different  routes. This funds, if you will, the initial  proof of concept route which would be from here to the  Triangle. And this opens us up to  three million dollars in three years and I think that this is  for the future as well because we want to still  have growth in this budget. So that's why I would support it be  thanks to the Senate with us for two routes and more people  are able to come into our city, into our town  and grow their city. Anybody else? All right, all those in the paper  include this on the 27th budget. Show of hands. One, two, three, four.  Okay, so it's on. In-house legal support, three hundred  thousand dollars.  So I would like a clarification and Mayor, you may have  experience with this too in the private side but keep in mind this  would be the base rate for in-house legal counsel. It's likely  even if we do have in-house legal counsel that we still have expenses  outside for specialty cases. Well, I'm going to take a  moment of executive privilege to tell you I've done this before. I think it's a  terrible idea. I have never had it or it ends up costing  pop-toms, whatever that number is, in my experience but this could be  different and I don't get a vote unless y'all  talk. Anyway, anybody want to speak to it?  So I understand the concept. I do and I'm sorry let me give you  minutes back there. I understand the concept but I think again  to create some sort of incentive for somebody to do all that legal support  for us, you know, successful or something if we  could either do that would be a much better adventure.  Councilor Robertson, I stepped on you there, my apologies.  No, I was just talking to some other municipalities that have done this  and I'm not saying that we stop the legal service that we have now but  there will be an addition to it because we have a lot of  delinquent taxes. We have a lot of coal violations and things like that so  we had a foreign staff on paralegal and attorney and they can focus on some of  those things and like I said I've seen this be  successful in other municipalities that they had  outside and they was able to bring it in and I think it raised  some revenue for the city as well. We have a paralegal  person in the board.  I've seen that in the municipalities as a fundraiser to raise funds. We offer that  but that will raise a fundraiser that actually  raise funds and they don't have to be on staff.  They could be a consultant position as well. Anybody else? Councilman  Robertson. I think, you know, with where we are  I don't think we should consider this right now.  I'm all about there's a lot of property taxes though and I think we  need to start with the foreclosure process  especially when we start finding some money but I think at one time the  city we had some contract attorneys that  maybe retired attorneys that worked on  some of this and I would like to see us when we get a better  physical place to do this and I'm all for  getting back the money that's owed and code violations  but I think we can send that over to a collection agency.  The only thing that this would really do is work for the foreclosure process  and I think we should do that. We put the property back in the  rolls and we could get revenue. In addition, it's not fair for  people paying the property taxes and their babies are not paying property  taxes so we do need to go with this but  at this time I don't think we should uh they're  down that road because it's a long process. Foreclosure  uh I think it's probably a year or longer process.  All right, anybody else? Okay, that's people in the portfolio.  Well, we agreed two minutes. We're just up or down, right?  Anybody else? All right, at $350,000  legal support the 0.7 budget to advance it for further discussion. All in  favor? Shake my hands. All right, two? All opposed?  All right, does not pass. All right, so here we are. 1.2 million dollars.  So summing up, $2 million  is what we have that council has decided that they want to include in the  budget. SAP has already identified $350,000  that we could use based on the IP address at the beginning.  So that leaves us about $880,000 that we have to find or even  increase revenue. So I would propose this.  If you will call in or whoever to review the contracts on  5-4-90 to really talk about timing  of when we have to pay it. We did the same thing with these other grants  the $136,000 to $300,000 that may close the gap for you  or for us and you know there may be some flexibility  that we're not contemplating here that we ought to consider  maybe when we make more of this. And the full contingency that we've got  in the city council budget.  I think we should utilize. So that's what I've included so  go back over. Shouldn't you utilize that full  original? Not originally but based on this. I just took the total amount  everything that we uncovered. So we have $200,000 in  mayor council contingency, $50,000 in event center salary  wages, $50,000 in cost of goods for event center,  non-departmental strategic initiatives, non-departmental reserve budget.  So those items together total $350,000.  So if we utilize all of the recommendations we have about  $880,000 gap that we got to find either on expenditure side or  increased revenue. And so I'm assuming what I would  like to hear. I anticipate you all want us to find it on  cuts, correct? Or like you said mayor, the timing of when we have to pay  other certain things is it based off that we may have to pay after June  of next year that may fall to the next fiscal year.  So we could have some flexibility there but if not the total is about  $880,000 that we got to find. All right we know that.  Councilman Robs. And this is excluding the updating our  building and collection money lines and the building and collection.  The manager has presented a balanced budget  of which we have now just changed. With an  increased $1.2 million expense. And so now we got to find the offset to that.  Either the bake sale, the car wash, or reductions.  And I will say that we may have some community investment depending on  some pending economic development things that they may have to address  that too. But again we won't know that until  So I understand we have a closed session that we need to do  and then we come back and talk about funding these points to maybe set up  for tomorrow. Is that right? I think it's economic  development is what you should talk about.  Okay. So that and we could. Yeah let's just do that.  Let's do that and then we come back into open session and kind of  complete the business year. Yeah I just wanted to as far as the  head of the building and collection department to  have them here to how we can update and modernize the  building and collections. Sure. So can we add that  tomorrow if she gives us a number because I didn't have a number today.  Let's come back to that one in the morning. But I've not a terrible idea.  Kestrel Harris wanted to talk. I recognize you Kestrel.  Yeah well I just wanted to ask manager Daniels. The other two downtown  development grants. You got about $1.3 million  dollars in next year's fiscal budget.  Is that all? Are we sure all of that will be used  in July 1 through June 30th? That's the anticipation. But what  doesn't what we are planning on doing I don't know if you recall  is that for all of our major capital privacy that we think will be multi-year  we're going to put them in a multi-year budget. So moving forward once  you all approve them once you have to approve them again then  they'll be in a multi-year set aside for them.  What I'm talking about was downtown development grants. The  Memorial Hospital they got theirs over into  27 and 28. That's what I was stating. So moving forth once it's  approved staff is going to set up a multi-year fund.  So it will cover all of our capital projects that  not just the ones downtown if we do anything else. Right. It's going to take  more than a year to fund. Once council approves that first time  that's what I just want to go back to what was just mentioned  operating staff and get more to talk about  relations and so forth. I think we've got 250,000 dollars in  the budget the manager has in there. You've got to get that done  first before you can move forward to other things which is what I tried to  explain earlier. So if we get if we if we go  through the process even if we added additional funds in there  you could institute it based on my understanding  in the upcoming FY 27 budget. So I'm not sure why we're going to come  to bring the person back in here. We'll talk about things that we  all want. Things that are needed. Well we've got  you know it's just like before you go to college you got you got to  got to go through kindergarten all the way to graduation.  So we've got to graduate first before we can get there. Am I accurate what I'm  saying or am I off base? Well I won't comment on the kindergarten stuff.  But I will say that we do have plans to upgrade technology. I think we're  going through a process of where we should have  estimates on what that would be and I think at that point in time  would be appropriate to have you know staff available  technologies will still service to discuss that. But I will say that I  know that tomorrow tomorrow is will be  unavailable for myself that staff as well as the mayor because we have  another appointment. It's already in the morning but we're doing in the  afternoon. There's a contingency. So we'll come  back to that. Can I get a motion that I go to close session?  All in favor. Aye. We're in close session.  We'll come back to all the stories.  Thank you.  Hey uh yeah Kim said that she didn't notice the closed sessions so we  probably don't go in a closed session.  Okay.  Is this how they're going to close or not?  Oh, she's checking.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  OK.  you  you